Central Neural System Electronic Bulletin Board 

Modem: 509-627-6267
Sysop: Wesley R. Elsberry
P.O. Box 1187
Richland, WA 99352

welsberr@sandbox.kenn.wa.us

Central Neural System BBS is an electronic online information service which
is dedicated to promoting communication of concepts and code between
Artificial Neural Network researchers and enthusiasts.  CNS has been online
since January, 1989, and has never charged users for access.

Currently, there are about twelve megabytes of files related to ANNs that
are available for download.  These include simulation packages (e.g., Greg
Tarr's Neural Graphics simulation and the Back Propagation Simulator from
George Mason University), demos (e.g., Togai Infralogic's Fuzzy and Neural
Technology demo), source code (e.g., Scott Fahlman's Cascade Correlation
routines in C and LISP), tutorials (e.g., my own ADALINE tutorial, with
text, simulation package, and source code), and other text (e.g., Neuron
Digest, archived back to 1989).  Most of the simulations are for IBM PC
compatible machines, but there are simulations for the Macintosh and Unix
boxes as well.

CNS is the home of the NEURAL_NET Echo, a FidoNet backbone echo
(distributed special interest discussion area) available upon request at
any of over 8,000 FidoNet and RBBS-Net BBSs across the country and around
the world.

I have made available a mail service for file transfer: if you mail an
appropriate number of MS-DOS formatted disks, a list of files wanted, and a
self-addressed stamped envelope, I will load up the disks and send them
back to you.  This will save on possible long-distance charges.  To get a
list of files, login to CNS, go to the LOGIN file area, and download the
file F930_303.LZH or CNS_FILE.LST.  These files contain a complete list of
files available from CNS BBS.

CNS is also a cooperating AI Expert Listings BBS, which means that CNS will
have the latest listings from AI Expert as well as a large selection of
past listings.  The AI Expert Neural Network Demo Disk is available as a
file on CNS, as well.

The Sysop of CNS is willing to accept sponsorship from persons or
institutions willing to provide operating expenses for the dedicated phone
line, or to provide equipment allowing expansion of operation.  Please
contact Wesley Elsberry at the address above if you are interested in
becoming a sponsor.

Use the following communication parameters for connecting to CNS BBS: eight
data bits, one stop bit, no parity; bps rate as 9600 (Courier HST
protocol), 2400, 1200, or 300 bps.
