From neves@aristotle.ils.nwu.edu Thu Nov 10 21:01:48 EST 1994
Article: 6075 of comp.lang.lisp.mcl
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news2.harvard.edu!news2.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!news.cac.psu.edu!news.pop.psu.edu!psuvax1!news.ecn.bgu.edu!anaxagoras.ils.nwu.edu!aristotle.ils.nwu.edu!neves
From: neves@aristotle.ils.nwu.edu (Neves )
Newsgroups: comp.lang.lisp.mcl
Subject: MCL news release
Date: 10 Nov 1994 20:24:36 GMT
Organization: The Institute for the Learning Sciences
Lines: 119
Message-ID: <39tvi4$7nt@anaxagoras.ils.nwu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: aristotle.ils.nwu.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]

THIS RELEASE MOVED OVER PR NEWSWIRE ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1994 AT 8:34 AM,
EST
 
 
Contact:
Janet Spinks
Regis McKenna, Inc.
(408) 974-3886
 
 
Apple Turns Over Development of Macintosh Common Lisp
to Digitool, Inc.
Digitool to Market and Support Macintosh Common Lisp,
Provide Native Power Macintosh Version
 
Cupertino, California--November 10, 1994--As part of its program to
accelerate the availability of developer tools for the Power
Macintosh , and demonstrating its commitment to Macintosh  Common
Lisp (MCL) users, Apple Computer, Inc. today announced that it has
licensed its MCL development software to Digitool, Inc.  The purpose
of the agreement is for Digitool to take over future development of
MCL.  Digitool has agreed to provide ongoing marketing and technical
support for MCL, and to introduce next year a Power Macintosh version
of the software, which will generate native PowerPC code.
     Digitool also has agreed to continue further development of the
version of MCL for Macintosh systems based on the Motorola 680x0
processors.  Apple  will continue to offer MCL through APDA, the
company's source for developer tools.
     "This agreement underscores Apple's ongoing commitment to the
developer community to provide strong support for our developer tools
and to allow developers to move their code forward to new hardware
platforms and OS releases," commented Peter Christy, Apple's senior
director of Developer Products Engineering.  "With this agreement,
Apple and Digitool will be working together to ensure a bright future
for MCL on both the 680x0-based Macintosh and Power Macintosh."
     Apple now expects that developers who have programs based on MCL
code will be able to continue development efforts with the knowledge that
their code can be ported to the Power Macintosh.  In addition,
developers will benefit by full support--and future enhancements--of
the 680x0 version of MCL by Digitool.
     "Digitool is very pleased with this new MCL responsibility," said
Hazem Sayed, president and founder of Digitool.  "MCL is in a league
of its own as an implementation of the Common Lisp standard and
object system.  It has sold many Lisp users on the Macintosh and sold
many Macintosh developers on Lisp.  Now, as well as with our future
release of a Power Macintosh native MCL, many of the large
workstation-based Lisp systems developed in academe, aerospace,
telecommunications, military, finance and medicine will find an
unbeatable price/performance delivery platform."
     Digitool, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is a new software
company formed by the principals of Paradigm Software, Incorporated,
and staffed by former employees of Apple's MCL development team.
Digitool's MCL development effort is partially funded by eleven
corporate sponsors and MCL customers including Apple Computer, Inc.,
Flavors Technology, Inc., KyTek, Inc., Lissys Ltd., and the
University of Basel.
     Product Summary
Common Lisp is an advanced programming language widely used in
industry and research.  MCL is recognized as a premier implementation
of Common Lisp on personal computers with performance comparable to
Lisp workstations.  An object-oriented dynamic language, MCL
implements the ANSI Common Lisp Object System (CLOS) and includes an
incremental compiler and application generator.  MCL is ideally
suited for quick application prototyping and provides a delivery
environment for intelligent applications as well as high-level
Macintosh interface access.
     Availability and Pricing
MCL Version 2.0.1 is available for U.S. $495 through APDA, Apple's
source for development tools and related programming products.
Pricing for future versions will be announced upon product
availability.  Digitool also has announced that it will provide
current users with the ability to upgrade to future versions at a
reduced price.  Site licenses for MCL are also available from APDA.
     APDA publishes the APDA Tools Catalog which describes hundreds of
Apple and third-party products. Developers should contact APDA for
orders only and Digitool for product support and  all other inquiries
using the following addresses or phone numbers.
 
APDA
Apple Computer, Inc.
P.O. Box 319
Buffalo, NY 14207-0319
800-282-2732 (U.S.A.)
800-637-0029 (Canada)
716-871-6555 (International)
716-871-6511 (Fax)
 
Digitool, Inc.
675 Massachusetts Avenue
Cambridge, MA 02139
617-441-5000
617-576-7680 (fax)
DIGITOOL (AppleLink)
HSAYED@DIGITOOL.COM (Internet)
 
Apple Computer, Inc., a recognized pioneer and innovator in the
information industry, creates powerful solutions based on easy to use
personal computers, servers, peripherals, software, online services,
and personal digital assistants.  Headquartered in Cupertino,
California, Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) develops, manufactures, licenses and
markets products, technologies and services for the business,
education, consumer, scientific & engineering and government markets
in over 140 countries.
-30-
Apple, the Apple logo, APDA and Macintosh are registered trademarks
of Apple Computer, Inc. Additional company and product names may be
trademarks of the individual companies and respectfully acknowledged.
     Note to Editors: If you are interested in receiving Apple press
releases by fax, call 1-800-AAPL-FAX (1-800-227-5329) and enter I.D.
number 6172.
 
AppleLink Pathway
News Break
Apple & Industry News
PR Express
Apple Press Release
11/10/94
 



Date: Fri, 11 Nov 1994 12:10:39 -0500
To: announce-mcl@cambridge.apple.com
From: hsayed@digitool.com (Hazem Sayed)
Subject: MCL now under Digitool

Dear MCL users

It brings me great pleasure to announce, on the behalf of Digitool
Inc., plans for the continued development and support of Macintosh
Common Lisp including its porting to the Power Macintosh.  Digitool
has taken over MCL from Apple Computer and we are committed to the
long term success of Lisp in general and Lisp on the Macintosh in
particular. Our plans and ongoing cooperation with Apple will assure
not only the same level of product quality, but also a greater market
presence for MCL.

Digitool would like to take this opportunity to thank the eleven
corporate sponsors, whose financial backing secured this agreement and
assures the completion of the port, and of whom we are able to mention
Apple Computer, Inc., Flavors Technology, Inc., KyTek, Inc., Lissys
Ltd., and the University of Basel. We would also like to thank the
community of MCL users whose belief in MCL played no small part in
realizing this agreement.

As Lisp devotees you are well aware of how under-appreciated Lisp is
in certain circles. Well, we are dead set on changing that, and with
your help we will prove that the GOOD GUYS CAN WIN.

Digitool is a new startup formed by principals of Paradigm Software
Incorporated and former employees of Apple's MCL development team,
including and most notably, Gary Byers, the main author of MCL's
kernel and compiler.

Our goals are:

1) to port MCL to the Power PC platform.

2) to assure the long term viability and success of MCL as both a
prototyping and delivery platform.

3) to keep MCL current with both developments in the Macintosh
platform and the Lisp world, while maintaining the same level of
product quality.

4) to provide the high quality of technical support MCL has been known
for.

5) to pursue opportunities for MCL on new platforms and with new VARs
and development partners.

6) to aggressively market MCL to the developer and academic
communities. In the same spirit that developed the Common Lisp
standard, we will be very open with our plans for MCL. In the days and
weeks to come we will outline our development, marketing and selling
plans. We will set public goals for MCL and will actively encourage
the MCL community in helping us achieve them.

We invite you to be equally open with your thoughts, suggestions and
participation in MCL's future.  Together, MCL can be a big win for
everyone.

Again, thank you for your tenacious support of MCL and stay tuned for
more news from Digitool.

Sincerely,

Hazem Sayed
President

Digitool, Inc.

675 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02139 USA Internet:
hsayed@digitool.com AppleLink:
digitool Tel: 617 441-5000 Fax: 617 576-7680


Date: Wed, 16 Nov 1994 00:00:41 -0500
To: announce-mcl@cambridge.apple.com
From: hsayed@digitool.com (Hazem Sayed)
Subject: 1st MCL Development Update

We have begun the port of MCL to the PowerPC platform, and hope to have it
completed late next year. MCL for the Power Macintosh will be based on the as
yet unreleased MCL 3.0.

In the first half of 1995, we expect to release MCL 3.0 for 680x0 Macs to
include support for multiple threads, improved FRED text handling and display
with WorldScript support, and new handy programming tools. Though this will notbe a PowerPC native release, it will be a major step in that direction, with a
considerable reduction of 680x0-specific code. More importantly for MCL users,
version 3.0 will provide functionality to assure a smooth transition to future
versions of the Mac OS with a high degree of cross-platform source code
compatibility.

Specific new features will be announced as they are committed to.

Also planned for the first half of 1995 is a student edition of MCL with a
target price of under $100. Nominations for an introductory Lisp book to
accompany the student edition are welcome.

The price of MCL 3.0 for 680x0 Macs will be $595 per license. A 20% discount
will be introduced for education. No price is announced for MCL for the PowerPC.

The upgrade to version 3.0 will be:
$135.00 for customers who purchased MCL 2.0.1 prior to November 1, 1994.
$75.00 for customers who purchased MCL 2.0.1 as of November 1, 1994.

Sincerely,

Hazem Sayed
President

Digitool, Inc.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

675 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02139 USA
Internet: hsayed@digitool.com AppleLink: digitool
Tel: 617 441-5000 Fax: 617 576-7680

====================
