From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky Fri Aug 20 16:55:19 EDT 1993
Article: 18463 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18463
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky
From: skalsky@public.btr.com (Rick Skalsky UUCPR ed aaai.org skalsky@btr.com)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: AAAI-93 Fall Symposium Registration Info
Date: 19 Aug 1993 19:28:55 GMT
Organization: OpenLink, Inc
Lines: 481
Message-ID: <250k9n$40r@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: AAAI artificial intelligence ai Fall Symposium



AAAI 1993
Fall Symposium Series
Registration Brochure

October 22-24, 1993

Sheraton Imperial Hotel & Convention Center
Research Triangle Park
Raleigh, North Carolina

Sponsored by the
American Association for Artificial Intelligence
445 Burgess Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025
(415) 328-3123
fss@aaai.org

AAAI presents the 1993 Fall Symposium Series to be held Friday 
through Sunday, October 22-24, 1993 at the Sheraton Imperial Hotel 
& Convention Center, Research Triangle Park, Raleigh, North 
Carolina.

The topics of the five symposia in the 1993 Fall Symposium Series 
are:
-  Automated Deduction in Nonstandard Logics
-  Games: Planning and Learning
-  Human-Computer Collaboration: Reconciling Theory, 
Synthesizing Practice 
-  Instantiating Real-World Agents
-  Machine Learning in Computer Vision: What, Why and How?

The highlights of each symposium will be presented at a special 
plenary session. Working notes will be prepared and distributed to 
participants in each symposium, but will not otherwise be available 
unless published as an AAAI Technical Report or edited collection.

Each symposium will have limited attendance. Participants will be 
expected to attend a single symposium throughout the symposium 
series. In addition to participants selected by the program 
committee of the symposia, a limited number of other interested 
parties will be allowed to register in each symposium on a first-
come, first-served basis. To register, please fill out the enclosed 
form, and send it along with payment to:

1993 Fall Symposium Series
AAAI
445 Burgess Drive
Menlo Park, CA 94025
Fax: (415) 321-4457 (credit card orders only)
Email: fss@aaai.org (credit card orders only)


Automated Deduction in Nonstandard Logics

A variety of nonstandard logics have been proposed in AI to 
represent time and action and also various epistemic notions, and a 
variety of methods have been developed to perform deduction with 
modal, many-valued, and other nonstandard logics. Also, an array 
of methods using concepts from nonstandard logic have been 
developed in work on nonmonotonic reasoning, abduction, and 
belief revision.

The goals of this symposium are to evaluate the state of the field, 
explore significant issues and delineate important areas where 
more research is needed. Our interests include both theoretical 
concerns and the practical considerations which attach to particular 
implementations and applications. Additionally, we hope to bring 
together researchers working on automated deduction in 
nonstandard logics and AI researchers interested in making use of 
such deductive systems.

Submissions have been received from researchers working on a 
variety of topics and from a variety of perspectives. The 
nonstandard logics covered in the submissions include conditional 
logics, autoepistemic logics, linear logic, default logics, modal 
logics, temporal logics, and multivalued logics. The automated 
proof methods include tableaux, resolution and sequent methods. 
The applications covered include planning, common sense 
reasoning, reasoning about actions, and modeling belief.

Some sample topics and questions for discussion are as follows:
-  There is a need for systematic comparison among different 
deduction methods, both at the level of implementation or 
efficiency and at the level of naturalness or expressiveness for 
particular domains and applications.
-  Can we develop a library of problems to compare methods?
-  Finding computationally effective proof methods for 
autoepistemic logic, default logic, and other nonmonotonic 
formalisms; implementing these methods in working programs.
-  What are the relative merits of methods that work by translating 
into FOL as opposed to reasoning explicitly with a modal 
language?
-  What are the results of attempts to use theorem provers for 
nonstandard logics in practical applications?

Invited Speaker: Melvin Fitting, Lehman College, CUNY.

Organizing Committee: Peter Jackson, Clarkson University, 
(cochair); Rich Scherl, University of Toronto, (cochair); Donald 
Nute, The University of Georgia; Jeff Pelletier, University of 
Alberta; Lincoln Wallen, University of Oxford.


Games: Planning and Learning

The symposium provides a forum for current research in game 
playing. Its focus extends beyond any particular game to include 
novel search techniques, planning and learning. The meeting draws 
together researchers from artificial intelligence and cognitive 
science, as well as statisticians, mathematicians, and computer 
scientists.

A central theme is how research on game playing contributes to our 
understanding of intelligence, particularly when it is applicable to 
more than one game. Topics include: assessing and increasing the 
generality of game-learning systems, computational 
implementations of mathematical game analysis, counterplanning, 
evaluation function learning, feature discovery, learning and using 
abstraction in game-playing, methodologies for evaluating learning 
and planning, psychological theories and models of learning and 
planning in games, reasoning and planning under uncertainty, 
reasoning under real-time constraints, selective search, and training 
paradigms for game-learning systems.

The symposium intends to maintain a balance between theoretical 
issues and descriptions of implemented systems to promote a 
synergy between theory and practice. As well as traditional paper 
presentations there will be invited talks and provocative panel 
discussions. Search, imperfect information, and implemented 
game-playing systems will be important topics.

Organizing Committee: Murray Campbell, Susan Epstein, (cochair); 
Nicholas Flann, Richard Korf, Robert Levinson, (cochair); Barney 
Pell, Stuart Russell, Prasad Tadepalli, Gerald Tesauro, Paul Utgoff.


Human-Computer Collaboration: Reconciling Theory, Synthesizing 
Practice

This symposium deals with the theory and practice of collaborative 
problem solving between people and computers. The study of 
collaborative problem solving involves understanding the 
processes by which agents work together to achieve goals. We seek 
a deep understanding of this process as it occurs between one 
human and one computational agent, an understanding that takes 
into account the unique characteristics of each type of agent. In 
particular, the goals of this symposium are to explore the 
fundamental nature of collaborative problem solving, examine 
various approaches to modeling collaboration and designing 
collaborative systems, and to draw lessons from implemented 
systems. 

Three major issues will be addressed at the symposium:

1. Sharing Responsibility
-  Analyses of the strengths and weaknesses of people and 
computers. 
-  Analyses of the types of communication and coordination 
necessary in order to collaborate on a task.
-  Analyses of how people do work. 
-  Methods for shifting responsibility between people and 
computers.

2. Managing the Person-Computer Interaction
-  Models of interaction.
-  Managing multi-media interaction.
-  Achieving"natural communication."

3. Clarifying Assumptions Concerning the Cognitive Capabilities 
and Knowledge Requirements Required for Effective Collaboration.
-  What knowledge must a system have in order to be an effective 
collaborative partner?
-  What are appropriate architectures for deploying this 
knowledge? 

We will consider both theoretical arguments concerning the type of 
knowledge that is necessary to be an effective collaborative partner, 
and system-based arguments that identify types of knowledge that 
have proved useful in practice, examine the cost of acquiring, 
representing, and utilizing such knowledge, or present general 
architectures for collaborative behavior.

Organizing Committee: Gerhard Fischer, University of Colorado at 
Boulder; Lewis Johnson, USC/ISI; Johanna Moore, University of 
Pittsburgh; Chuck Rich, Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories; 
Candace Sidner, Digital Equipment Corporation; Loren Terveen, 
AT&T Bell Laboratories, (chair).


Instantiating Real-World Agents

Rather than being centered on a research area, or a general 
unsolved problem area, this symposium will concentrate on AI as 
applied to a physically instantiated robot for vacuuming household 
floors. The target problem is to autonomously vacuum a living 
room, while doing the right thing with furniture, pets, trash, etc. In 
particular, research on navigation, planning, spatial representation, 
multi-agent control, behavior control, obstacle avoidance, 
perception, exploration, NLP interfaces, etc., will be presented as 
that research relates to household vacuuming. Theoretical work, 
simulations, and partially implemented systems set in the target 
domain will be discussed.

Limiting the discussions to a specific task to be performed without 
allowing the engineering of a specific solution still leaves many 
issues to be explored. We hope that significant progress can be 
made on this problem, and that new research methods might grow 
out of this type of symposium. We are also hopeful that a common 
problem domain may obviate the vocabulary problems that have 
crept up in recent years. By having a common problem, we hope a 
common language will emerge.

Additionally, by concentrating on a real-world problem domain, 
we hope that some practical progress can be made, bringing to 
focus some research areas that are of more than just academic 
interest. It may even be possible that participants in this 
symposium will work on a commercial version of this robot--
allowing them to really clean up (as it were).

The written papers for the symposium consist of short position 
papers that describe either the authors' approach to addressing the 
vacuuming problem, or their current research and how it can be 
related to the vacuuming floors in the home.

It is important to keep in mind that we will be discussing not 
engineered solutions, but rather those oriented on general 
techniques which could be used in similar tasks. We will present 
and discuss "explore, learn, map, and plan" as well as reactive 
approaches, with a view toward uncovering the value and trade-
offs among these strategies.

Organizing Committee: Pete Bonasso, MITRE, (cochair and contact 
person) (bonasso@starbase.mitre.org); David Miller, MITRE, 
(cochair); Ramesh Jain, UCSD; Ben Kuipers, University of Texas at 
Austin.


Machine Learning in Computer Vision: What, Why, and How?

This symposium will bring together researchers from different 
specialties in machine learning and computer vision to address 
issues raised by examining the use of machine learning in computer 
vision:
-  What elements of a computer vision system might be learned 
rather than hand-crafted by the designer?
-  What machine learning paradigms are appropriate to the 
computer vision domain (especially across the signal to symbol 
transition)?
-  Why or how would learning improve the performance or 
efficiency of computer vision systems?
-  How do we go about implementing or exploiting the machine 
learning paradigms which seem most appropriate to the computer 
vision domain?

One of the acknowledged problems with computer vision systems 
is that they tend to be hand-crafted application-specific efforts that 
embody or reflect rather little in the way of general principles 
which can adapt easily from one application environment to 
another. While some in the computer vision field are currently 
reconsidering the goal of "general purpose vision systems" as 
possibly too difficult or not relevant, there is still the clearly 
motivated desire to learn something from the experience in creating 
a vision system for one application domain that can be used to 
make it easier to create the next vision system.

Since much of the effort in creating a vision system often lies in 
creating a database of examples and facts, and in tuning the 
parameters and operations of the system to the application domain, 
learning techniques may be of use in addressing this problem. 
However, it is not yet clear what learning capabilities computer 
vision systems should have, why these capabilities should result in 
computer vision systems that display greater competence and 
generality, or how to go about building vision systems that 
incorporate learning capabilities.

>From the standpoint of machine learning systems, visual domains 
present some interesting problems. The images and the outputs of 
low-level image processing operations tend to be noisy, making it 
difficult to get true segmentation of images and so unreasonable to 
assume that the transition from image signal to symbol is made 
completely and correctly. Also, large numbers of exactly labeled 
examples suitable for inductive learning are generally not available. 
There is often some domain knowledge available and some clear 
examples, perhaps suggesting a multi-paradigm learning approach.

The workshop will consist of invited talks, sessions of contributed 
papers and a panel discussion. The emphasis will be on interactive 
discussion of issues and approaches. 

Organizing Committee: Kevin Bowyer, University of South Florida 
(cochair); Chris Brown, University of Rochester; Bruce Draper, 
University of Massachusetts; Lawrence Hall, University of South 
Florida (cochair); Tom Mitchell, Carnegie-Mellon University; Larry 
Rendell, University of Illinois; Dean Pomerleau, Carnegie Mellon 
University.


Registration

ALL ATTENDEES MUST PREREGISTER. Each symposium has a 
limited attendance, with priority given to invited attendees. All 
accepted authors, symposium participants, and other invited 
attendees must register by September 17, 1993. After that period, 
registration will be opened up to the general membership of AAAI 
and other interested parties. All registrations must be postmarked 
by September 30, 1993.

Your registration fee covers your attendance at the symposium, a 
copy of the working notes for your symposium, and reception.

Please fill out the attached registration form and mail it with your 
fee to:

AAAI 1993 Fall Symposium
445 Burgess Drive
Menlo Park, CA 94025
FAX: 415/321-4457
Email: fss@aaai.org

Checks (drawn on US bank) or international money orders should 
be made out to AAAI. VISA, MasterCard and American Express are 
also accepted. (Only credit card orders are accepted by fax or email.)

Please note: All refund requests must be in writing and postmarked 
by October 8, 1993. No refunds will be granted after this date.

When you arrive at the Sheraton Imperial Hotel, please pick up 
your complete registration packet in the Imperial Convention 
Center Lobby. Registration hours will be:

Thursday, October 21   5:00 pm  -  7:30 pm
Friday, October 22   8:00 am  -  5:00 pm
Saturday, October 23   8:00 am  -  5:00 pm

Please call AAAI at 415/328-3123 or email fss@aaai.org for further 
information.

Accommodations

For your convenience, AAAI has reserved a block of rooms at the 
Sheraton Imperial Hotel. The prices are: $68.00 for regular single; 
$108.00 for Towers single; $78.00 for regular double; $123.00 for 
Towers double. Symposium attendees must contact the Sheraton 
Imperial Hotel directly. Please identify yourself as an American 
Association for Artificial Intelligence Fall Symposium registrant to 
qualify for the reduced rate. Please make reservations no later than 
September 21, 1993.

Sheraton Imperial Hotel & Convention Center
I-40 exit 282 at Page Road
P O Box 13099
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709
Phone: 919/941-5050
Fax: 919/941-5156

Disclaimer: In offering the Sheraton Imperial Hotel & Convention 
Center, United Airlines, and Hertz (hereinafter referred to as 
"Suppliers") and all other service providers for the AAAI Fall 
Symposium Series, the American Association for Artificial 
Intelligence acts only in the capacity of agent for the Suppliers. 
Because the American Association for Artificial Intelligence has no 
control over the personnel, equipment or operations of providers of 
accommodations or other services included as part of the 
Symposium program, AAAI assumes no responsibility for and will 
not be liable for any personal delay, inconveniences, or other 
damage suffered by symposium participants which may arise by 
reason of (1) any wrongful or negligent acts or omissions on the 
part of any Supplier or its employees, (2) any defect in or failure of 
any vehicle, equipment or instrumentality owned, operated or 
otherwise used by any Supplier, or (3) any wrongful or negligent 
acts or omissions on the part of any other party not under the 
control, direct or otherwise, of AAAI.


Air Transportation & Rental Car

AAAI has selected United Airlines as the official airline carrier and 
Hertz Rental Car as the official car rental agency. To make 
reservations at a discounted rate, please call the United Airlines 
Specialized Meeting Reservations Center directly at 800-521-4041 or 
contact any travel agent. Be sure to specify that you are traveling to 
the AAAI Fall Symposium Series and identify our reference 
#538AG. By using this reference number, you will also qualify for 
discounts on your Hertz Rental Car. Effective travel dates are 
October 19 - 27, 1993, inclusive.


Ground Transportation

The Sheraton Imperial provides 24-hour complimentary shuttle 
service to and from the Raleigh/Durham International Airport. 
Please use the airport courtesy telephone in the baggage claim area 
to arrange for shuttle service upon your arrival. Press the speed dial 
button to the Sheraton, and a van will be dispatched. When you are 
ready to leave the Sheraton, please arrange for a courtesy van with 
the hotel bellman. If you prefer to take a taxi, the fare from the 
Raleigh/Durham International Airport to the Sheraton is 
approximately $6.00.


Parking

Complimentary outdoor parking is available at the Sheraton 
Imperial. Valet parking is also available.


Tentative Program Schedule (subject to change)

Friday, October 22
9:00 am - 5:30 pm  Symposia sessions
6:00 pm - 7:00 pm  Reception

Saturday, October 23
9:00 am - 5:30 pm  Symposia sessions
7:30 pm - 10:00 pm  Plenary session

Sunday, October 24
9:00 am - 12:30 pm  Symposia sessions

Registration will be in the Imperial Convention Center Lobby of the 
Sheraton.


Registration Form 

1993 AAAI Fall Symposium Series
ALL ATTENDEES MUST PREREGISTER
Please complete in full and return to AAAI by 
September 17, 1993 (invited attendees) or by September 30, 1993 
(general registration). Please print or type.

First name:
Last name:
Affiliation:
Address: (Home __ or Business __


City:
State:
Zip or postal code:
Country:
Daytime telephone:
Net address:

Symposium
(Please check only one)
___  1. Automated Deduction in Non-Standard Logics
___  2. Games: Planning and Learning
___  3. Human-Computer Collaboration: Reconciling Theory, 
Synthesizing Practice
___  4. Instantiating Real-World Agents
___  5. Machine Learning in Computer Vision: What, Why and How?

Fee
___  Member: $ 220.00 
___  Nonmember: $ 260.00  
___  Student Member $ 95.00
___  Nonmember student: $ 115.00
(Students must send legible proof of full-time student status.)

TOTAL FEE  (Please enter correct amount.): 
$__________

Method of Payment  (please check one)

___  Mastercard
___  VISA
___  American Express 

Credit card number:
Expiration date:
Name (as it appears on card)     

Email to fss@aaai.org. 

Please Note: Requests for refunds must be received in writing by 8 
October 1993.
A $25.00 processing fee will be levied on all refunds granted.




