                   Sixteenth Annual Conference of the
                       COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY

                           August 13-16, 1994

                    Georgia Institute of Technology
                            Atlanta, Georgia


                           CALL FOR REVIEWERS


To help carry out the peer review process for the Cognitive Science
conference, we are seeking reviewers who are expert in one or more of
the multiple areas that are represented at the conference.  If you are
interested in being considered as a reviewer for the conference, or know
of someone else who should be, please fill out one of these forms and
submit it as soon as possible.  Prime qualifications are a willingness
to provide thoughtful, informed comments on submissions.

Reviewers will evaluate submitted papers with respect to several
criteria, including originality, quality, and significance of research,
relevance to a broad audience of cognitive science researchers, and
clarity of presentation.  The peer review process serves four important
functions: it ensures that the best papers are selected for presentation
at the conference; it provides valuable feedback to the authors of all
submitted papers, whether accepted or declined; it helps define the
state-of-the-art of our field by identifying the papers that best
represent it; and it helps shape the future of our field by identifying
research that best elucidates the future.

Nominations for reviewers should be sent on this form or by electronic
mail to:

Prof. Ashwin Ram
Cognitive Science 1994 Conference
Georgia Institute of Technology
College of Computing
801 Atlantic Drive
Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0280
cogsci94@cc.gatech.edu

Self-nominations are welcome.  Please use one form per nomination.


CONFERENCE CHAIRS
Kurt Eiselt and Ashwin Ram

STEERING COMMITTEE
Dorrit Billman, Mike Byrne, Alex Kirlik, Janet Kolodner (chair), Nancy
Nersessian, Mimi Recker, and Tony Simon



                   Sixteenth Annual Conference of the
                       COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY

                           August 13-16, 1994

                    Georgia Institute of Technology
                            Atlanta, Georgia


                        REVIEWER NOMINATION FORM

Name:

Position:

Affiliation:

Mailing address:


E-mail address:

Phone number:

Fax number:

Areas of speciality:

Discipline:

Problems addressed in nominee's research:


Methodologies employed in nominee's research:


Upto five most relevant publications:

    1. 

    2. 

    3. 

    4. 

    5. 
