
Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa23107;
          6 Dec 94 16:58:25 EST
Date: Tue, 6 Dec 94 16:57:22 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-predoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Predoc: Tilburg University

From: walter@kub.nl (Walter Daelemans)
Date: Tue Dec 06 05:46:31 EST 1994
Organization: Tilburg University, Tilburg, The Netherlands

Predoctoral research associate position in
cognitive psychology/computational linguistics
(Ph.D position, 4 year contract)
Tilburg University

A predoctoral position in cognitive psychology/computational
linguistics is available immediately at Tilburg University. The
focus of research will be on the development of a text-to-speech
conversion system with special emphasis on modelling reading ac-
quisition and developmental dyslexia. The development of the model
and the simulations will be conducted together with behavioral
experiments.

In the project, a strongly cross-linguistic approach is taken.
Comparative models will be built for English, French, and Dutch. This
approach furthermore includes the development of a computational
measure of the complexity of these writing systems (`orthographic
depth').

Candidates with training in cognitive psychology, cognitive neurop-
sychology combined with computational (connectionist) modelling are
preferred.

Applicants should send a curriculum vitea and a brief description
of fields of interest to:

Professor Beatrice de Gelder
Department of Psychology
Tilburg University
Warandelaan, 2
PO Box 90153
5000 LE Tilburg, The Netherlands
email: b.degelder@kub.nl

Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa15598;
          8 Dec 94 13:55:06 EST
Date: Thu, 8 Dec 94 13:53:32 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-predoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Predoc: GRE Grad Research Assistantships in Psychometrics

Subject: ETS: Graduate Assistantships

                Announcing the 1995-96 GRE Graduate Research
                  Assistantships in Psychometrics Program

The Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) Board is pleased to announce the
availability of up to ten graduate research assistantships for psychometric
programs for the 1995-96 academic year.  Graduate research assistants will
serve as on-site data coordinators for a variety of research studies related
to the development of a new, modular, computerized GRE General Test and other
new GRE testing initiatives, and/or other research projects of relevance to
Educational Testing Service (ETS).

Funding will consist of a student stipend paid to the assistant and a fixed
cost-of-education allowance paid to the institution.  The stipend will be
$12,000 ($1,200 per month) for a period of ten months.  The cost-of-education
allowance to the institution will be $7,500.  Assistanships are for a ten-
month period (September 1, 1995 through June 30, 1996).

Nominations must reach the GRE Program at ETS by February 1, 1995.
Notification of awards will be made by the end of March, 1995.  Nomination
information and application materials can be obtained by contacting Maria
Potenza, Educational Testing Service, Mail Stop 32-V, Princeton, NJ 08541,
609-951-1522, or email: mpotenza@ets.org.


Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa05856;
          24 Jan 95 17:17:26 EST
Date: Tue, 24 Jan 95 17:16:47 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-predoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Summer: ETS

                      EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE

               1995 Summer Fellowship in Mathematics Automatic
                    Scoring and Item Generation Research

DESCRIPTION   Up to 3 graduate students will be selected to participate in
ongoing research projects under the supervision of ETS senior staff with
expertise in cognitive psychology and artificial intelligence.  These
projects focus on using computational methods to (1) score student responses
to open- ended mathematical problems entered on computer and (2) generate
mathematical word problems and other mathematical test items in a
theoretically principled way, such that their difficulty can be predicted.

DURATION  Monday, June 5, 1995 through Friday, July 28, 1995.

STIPEND  $2500 for the 8-week period with a supplemental living allowance
for participants who bring their spouse or child ($350), OR spouse and child
($500).  Participants and their families will be reimbursed for reasonable
round-trip travel expenses from their home or university to ETS.

SELECTION  The main criterion for selection will be scholarship and the
match of applicant interests with participating ETS staff.  Affirmative
action goals will also be considered in the selection process.

WHO SHOULD APPLY  The program is open to any individual enrolled in a
doctoral program in computer science, cognitive psychology, or a related
discipline. Computer science applicants should be proficient in LISP,
Prolog, C++, or C and have strong mathematical skills.  Experience in the
development of intelligent tutoring systems is also a plus.

REQUIREMENTS
     Completion of 40 or more graduate credits in a doctoral
     program emphasizing one of the areas specified above.
     A resume of educational and job history, honors, awards,
     etc.
     A letter of reference from an advisor or committee chair
     Official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate studies

DEADLINE   All application materials must arrive at ETS on or before
February 28, 1995.

DECISION   Applicants will be notified by April 15, 1995.

CONTACT    Please direct inquiries and required materials to:
Linda J. DeLauro, Mail Stop 16-T, Educational Testing Service,
Princeton, NJ 08541-0001, Telephone 609-734-1806, Internet:
ldelauro@ets.org.

Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa06684;
          24 Jan 95 18:18:44 EST
Date: Tue, 24 Jan 95 18:17:19 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-predoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Fellowship: Open Univ., AI & Manufacturing

From: c.s.hartley@open.ac.uk (Chris)
Date: Tue Jan 24 09:50:46 EST 1995


PhD Studentship:
Artificial Intelligence applied to the manufacture of sheet metal and paper
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Applications are invited for a PhD studentship at the Open University in Wales
(the OU's regional centre in Cardiff, Wales, UK).  The research will involve
the application of artificial intelligence techniques to the analysis of
factors affecting the quality of wide steel & aluminium strip and paper.  The
role played by the quality of the periodic re-grinding of the process rolls in
determining the quality of the final strip is of particular interest.  The workis likely to involve close co-operation with the Welsh Laboratories of British
Steel and Metrology Systems Wales, a company specialising in the measurement
and analysis of roll profiles.

Further details can be obtained from Dr Alun Armstrong
(D.A.Armstrong@open.ac.uk)

Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa18251;
          25 Jan 95 17:13:23 EST
Date: Wed, 25 Jan 95 17:12:15 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-predoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Fellowship: Space Grant, Oregon State Univ.

From: padalam@granite.CS.ORST.EDU (unBeing)
Date: Wed Jan 25 14:21:11 EST 1995
Organization: Computer Science Department, Oregon State University


        Space Grant Fellowships for New Graduate Students
                     Oregon State University

The Computer Science Department at Oregon State University has the
opportunity to nominate interested incoming graduate students for
support under an Oregon Space Grant Fellowship.  Students who are
selected for these one year fellowships will receive approximately
$14,000 in support plus a tuition waiver.  These fellowships are part
of a national program intended to increase the number of U.S.
scientists and engineers available for careers in aerospace and
related fields.  You will be expected to participate in Computer
Science research in one of the areas identified below during your
first year, and you must be a U.S. citizen.  Our research areas
relevant to the Space Grant Program include:
        programming languages and systems
        artificial intelligence
        software engineering
        real-time systems
        algorithm analysis
        parallel computing
        software tools for parallel scientific programming
        design of user interfaces for technical programmers

To apply
--------
We are recruiting students interested in this opportunity.  The
application process for such a fellowship is quite simple: express an
interest in the fellowship by sending e-mail to Bernie Feyerherm
(bernie@cs.orst.edu) by February 1, mention the area(s) of interest to
you, and apply to our graduate school in the usual way.  In your
e-mail, please let us know your GRE scores, gradepoint, and
background in Computer Science.

About Oregon State University's Computer Science Department
-----------------------------------------------------------
The Department of Computer Science is an active, pioneering group.
The faculty includes 15 Ph.D.s who are enrolled in research and
graduate instruction.  3 of our faculty have been named
NSF/Presidential Young Investigators by the National Science
Foundation.  Approximately 75 graduate students and 325 undergraduate
students are enrolled.  We have excellent laboratory and equipment
facilities, and have been the recipient of a number of research,
equipment, and software grants from our industrial friends and
sponsors and from the National Science Foundation and NASA.

Our section of Oregon ranks eighth in the country in computer-related
industry.  We have strong ties with several companies in the area,
including Tektronix, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Sequent, and Intel.
Corvallis, home of Oregon State University, is located in the
Willamette Valley between the Cascade Mountains and the Pacific Ocean.
The city of 42,000 is about 85 miles south of the metropolitan area of
Portland, 50 miles from the scenic Oregon coast, and 80 miles west of
the beautiful Cascade Mountains.  Outdoor activities such as fishing,
camping, skiing, and hiking are within easy driving distance.  The
valley experiences wet, cool winters and warm, dry summers.

For more information, contact Bernie Feyerherm (bernie@cs.orst.edu),
or see our WWW page: http://www.cs.orst.edu/info/

Deadline for e-mail expressing interest in the Space Grant Fellowship:
February 1, 1995.

Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa21888;
          31 Jan 95 17:22:57 EST
Date: Tue, 31 Jan 95 17:05:26 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-jobs@cs.cmu.edu, ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu, ai+ai-predoc@cs.cmu.edu, 
    ai+lisp-jobs@cs.cmu.edu, ai+prolog-jobs@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Admin: Semi-Annual Statistics

This is an automatically generated summary of usage statistics for the
AI-related job mailing lists.

  Subscribers as of January 31, 1995:
    Lisp-Jobs   390
    AI-Jobs     247
    Prolog-Jobs 114
    AI-Postdoc   64
    AI-Predoc    33

    Note: The Lisp-Jobs mailing list was in existence for several
          years before the establishment of the other AI-related 
          job mailing lists. 

  Job Postings since July 1, 1994:
    Lisp-Jobs    52
    AI-Jobs     142
    Prolog-Jobs   8
    AI-Postdoc    7
    AI-Predoc     2

  Misdirected (un)subscription requests caught by list server: 58
    Lisp-Jobs    15
    AI-Jobs      21 
    Prolog-Jobs  10
    AI-Postdoc    4
    AI-Predoc     8

  Queries received by query server since July 1, 1994: 2288
  

Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa22011;
          31 Jan 95 17:28:47 EST
Date: Tue, 31 Jan 95 17:26:53 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-jobs@cs.cmu.edu, ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu, ai+ai-predoc@cs.cmu.edu, 
    ai+lisp-jobs@cs.cmu.edu, ai+prolog-jobs@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Admin: Semi-Annual Statistics

This is an automatically generated summary of usage statistics for the
AI-related job mailing lists.

  Subscribers as of January 31, 1995:
    Lisp-Jobs   390
    AI-Jobs     247
    Prolog-Jobs 114
    AI-Postdoc   64
    AI-Predoc    33

    Note: The Lisp-Jobs mailing list was in existence for several
          years before the establishment of the other AI-related
          job mailing lists.

  Job Postings since July 1, 1994:
    Lisp-Jobs    52
    AI-Jobs     142
    Prolog-Jobs   8
    AI-Postdoc    7
    AI-Predoc     2

  Misdirected (un)subscription requests caught by list server: 58
    Lisp-Jobs    15
    AI-Jobs      21
    Prolog-Jobs  10
    AI-Postdoc    4
    AI-Predoc     8

  Queries received by query server since July 1, 1994: 2288



Return-Path: <Mark_Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id ab22048;
          2 Feb 95 19:38:53 EST
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU id aa11657;
          2 Feb 95 19:38:21 EST
To: ai+ai-predoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Predoc: HCI/Comp. Ling. (Univ. of Brighton)
Date: Thu, 02 Feb 95 19:38:19 EST
Message-ID: <11655.791771899@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
From: Mark Kantrowitz <Mark_Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>


From: Donia Scott <drs2@itri.bton.ac.uk>
Date: Thu, 2 Feb 95 18:55:14 GMT

                 **** PLEASE DISTRIBUTE ***

The Information Technology Research Institute at the University of
Brighton has a 3-year studentship available for work towards a PhD
in one of the following areas:

	- computational linguistics
	- computer supported collaborative design
	- human computer interaction
	- multimedia

Applicants should have a first class or good upper second degree (or
equivalent) in  artificial intelligence, cognitive science, computer
science or linguistics, and be available to start by 31st May 1995.

The studentship is funded by the EPSRC, and covers full registration
fees and a contribution towards living expenses for candidates who
have been ordinarily resident in the UK throughout the 3 year period
preceding the date of the award. The award will only cover registration
fees for EC candidates currently resident in other countries within the
Community.

The deadline for applications is 3rd March 1995.

Interested parties should send a copy of their CV, together with the
names and addresses of 2 academic referees to:

Ms. Melanie Pearson,
Research Administrator,
ITRI,
University of Brighton,
Lewes Road, Brighton BN2 4AT

email: mel.pearson@itri.bton.ac.uk
fax: +44-(0)1273-606653
tel: +44-(0)1273-642900

Further details of the ITRI are appended here:
........................................................................

Information Technology Research Institute
=========================================

The Information Technology Research Institute is a research department
within the University of Brighton whose aims are to further
interdisciplinary research on Information Technology and its
applications.  The work of the Institute is funded by the University,
by grants from national and european research councils and contracts
with commercial organisations.

The current focus of the Institute is on two key areas: language
engineering and computer supported collaborative design.  Work on
language engineering includes theoretical and applied research on
computational linguistics in the areas of discourse, information
extraction, knowledge representation, lexical representation, machine
translation, multilingual text generation, user modelling and the
design of multimodal interfaces.  Our work on computer supported
collaborative design centres on investigations of the requirements for
software environments to support collaboration in design, with special
attention to the areas of architectural design, concurrent engineering
and to the conceptual stage of the design process.

The Institute also hosts visiting researchers for periods up to three
years; recent visitors have come from Carnegie Mellon University and
the Information Sciences Institute (USA), the universities of Musashi
and Waseda (Japan), the GMD-IPSI (Germany), the University of Sofia
(Bulgaria), the University of Sao Paulo and Catholic University
(Brazil).

The Institute is a lively department of some twenty researchers,
including research fellows, research assistants, postgraduate students
and technical and administrative staff. It is housed in a separate,
customised building on the Mithras site of the University, near the
centre of Brighton, and provides excellent research facilities.

The Head of the Institute is Professor Donia Scott.

Senior Researchers
==================

Dr John Downie
MSc (Edinburgh),DPhil (Edinburgh)
Concurrent engineering, computer supported collaborative design,
mechatronic design.

Dr Roger Evans
Cert.ASM (Cambridge), DPhil (Sussex)
Artificial intelligence, computational linguistics, programming tools
and environments.

Mr Richard Griffiths
MA (Sussex)
Artificial intelligence, human-centred systems, human-computer
interaction.

Mr Tony Hartley
MSc (Sussex)
Artificial intelligence, computational linguistics, human-computer
interaction, machine translation.

Dr Adam Kilgarriff
DPhil (Sussex)
Computional lexicography

Dr  Cecile Paris
MS (Columbia), PhD (Columbia)
Artificial intelligence, computational linguistics, human computer
interaction, user modeling.

Dr Chengzhi Peng
MSc (Strathclyde), PhD (Edinburgh)
Design studies, computer-aided design, computer graphics,
computer-supported cooperative work, visualisation.

Dr Lyn Pemberton
MA (Toronto), MSc(Sussex), PhD(Toronto)
Computer-supported collaborative work, human-computer interaction.

Dr Richard Power
PhD (Edinburgh)
Artificial intelligence, expert systems, knowledge elicitation.

Professor Donia Scott
MSc (Sussex), D.Phil (Sussex)
Artificial intelligence, computational linguistics, human computer
interaction.

Dr Keith Vander Linden
MS (Iowa), PhD (Colorado)
Artificial intelligence, computational linguistics.


Return-Path: <AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa10444;
          7 Feb 95 13:31:37 EST
Date: Tue, 7 Feb 95 13:30:27 EST
From: AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-predoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Predoc: Genetic Algorithms (Colorado State Univ.)

From: whitley@cs.colostate.edu (darrell whitley)
Date: Mon Feb 06 13:30:30 EST 1995
Organization: Computer Science Department, Colorado State University



The AI Laboratory at Colorado State University expects to have
research assistantships available in the following areas next year.

 1.  Scheduling with Genetic Algorithms.  The goal will be
     to revise existing GA software for a new scheduling
     application in the transportation domain.  The scheduler
     will be evaluated and compared to 2 existing schedulers.

 2.  Applications of Genetic Algorithms to seismic problems,
     development of new test problems and comparisons of GAs
     to other local search and heuristic search methods.

 3.  Combinations of genetic algorithms and neural networks.
     In particular, this work looks at neurocontrol applications
     and the use of grammar based representations to encode
     neural network topology and weights.

Research assistants would be part of a research team of appropriately
8 Ph.D. students, with 4 or 5 students doing research related to
genetic algorithms.  Interested individuals should contact me at

whitley@cs.colostate.edu

Information on applying to the graduate program at CSU can be
obtained by mailing to

gradinfo@cs.colostate.edu

Darrell Whitley

