From fwlist@aol.com Wed Aug 10 19:46:47 EDT 1994
Article: 2510 of comp.lang.dylan
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!news2.near.net!MathWorks.Com!panix!zip.eecs.umich.edu!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!uunet!newstf01.cr1.aol.com!search01.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: fwlist@aol.com (FWList)
Newsgroups: comp.lang.dylan
Subject: OO Frameworks
Date: 8 Aug 1994 14:24:12 -0400
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 43
Sender: news@search01.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <325t8c$h77@search01.news.aol.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: search01.news.aol.com

Hi,

I'm starting a mailing list for people interested in Object Oriented
Frameworks.  Frameworks have been around for a long time, but Taligent's
framework-based system, Microsoft's MFC, and Apple's OpenDoc Parts
Framework will soon make frameworks familiar to most personal computer and
workstation programmers.  I'd like to get a dialog going on different
techniques for creating frameworks, as well as discussions of existing
frameworks.

Good topics of discussion might include:
* Framework programming techniques
* Documenting frameworks
* Language issues
* Design patterns
* Personal experiences using frameworks
* Information on available frameworks
* Announcements of framework related events

Don't limit yourself to these topics.  This list should be a place where
people can air new ideas, and ask for help from other people working in
the area of frameworks.
This forum wont be limited to applications frameworks, but will include
problem-domain-specific frameworks. These could include frameworks for
loan processing, inventory control, animation, games, databases, etc. 
Hopefully we can get a good group of people involved and spark some good
discussion.

The list will be moderated and a digest will be sent out every two weeks
or so.  

To subscribe to the list send a message to FWList@AOL.COM.  Include the
word "subscribe" in the heading for the message.  Include your name and
preferred e-mail address in the message body.

When you want to contribute an idea to the list, or ask a question, send
your message to FWList@AOL.COM.  All ideas are welcome!


Steve Wilson
Moderator
Frameworks List
FWList@AOL.COM


