
Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa20777;
          20 Oct 94 16:25:14 EDT
Date: Thu, 20 Oct 94 16:23:53 EDT
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: fwd: Machine Vision, NZ


           Post-Doctorial Research Position - Machine Vision
                     Industrial Research Limited
                        Auckland, New Zealand

Applications are invited for a Post-Doctorial Research position with the
Machine Vision Team of Industrial Research Limited in Auckland, New
Zealand.

Industrial Research Limited is New Zealand's national institute for
industrial research and development, being one of ten Government-owned
Crown Research Institutes. It employs approximately 400 people and has
sites in Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch. It operates as an
independent company with about 60% of its funding coming from Government
research contracts and the remainder from research, development and
consultancy services to industry.

The Machine Vision Team currently comprises ten team members in Auckland
with a further four located in Christchurch. The team is involved in both
Government and commercially funded research and development projects in
machine vision and related technologies.

The team is multi-disciplinary and expertise exists in computer vision,
signal processing, electronic design, optics, and various sensing
technologies including lasers, ultrasonics and X-rays. This diversity of
skills gives the team a strong ability to solve practical industrial
problems.

Computing facilities include a network of Sun workstations, Macintosh
and PC personal computers, and a range of high speed vision
architectures including Datacube and our own transputer based
Kiwivision MTM. Other facilities include a state of the art industrial
X-ray system, K2T structured lighting system and various other optical
and laser facilities.

Further information on the team and its activities can be found in our
World Wide Web home page:  http://kauri.auck.irl.cri.nz/. Further
information on Industrial Research Limited is also available via the
WWW at http://www.grace.cri.nz/. Both of these WWW sites are still
under construction.

The job is located in Parnell, Auckland, site of Industrial Research
Limited's Corporate Headquarters.

The successful applicant will be offered a two year contract with
salary, conditions and relocation assistance to be negotiated. Starting
date is a little flexible but early 1995 is preferred.

Primary Purpose of the Job:
--------------------------
To contribute to the research and development effort of the Machine
Vision Team.

Key Tasks and Functions:
------------------------
-  To participate in a Government funded research project in Dynamic Vision.
   This project involves investigating the application of dynamic/active
   vision techniques to industrial inspection tasks.
-  To participate in several other Government and/or commercially
   funded projects undertaken by the team.
-  Software implementation of various algorithms for Sun (UNIX) platforms.
-  To publish results of his/her work where appropriate.
-  To keep abreast of latest developments relating to research areas.

Knowledge & Experience:
----------------------
An ideal candidate would have the following qualifications and experience:
-  a recent or imminent PhD degree in computer vision.
-  an excellent knowledge of machine/computer vision theory and techniques.
-  familiarity with Unix and computer workstations.
-  excellent software writing skills, specifically with the C and
   possibly C++ languages.
-  good planning and organisational skills.
-  good oral and written communication skills.

Qualities and Attributes:
------------------------
This position would suit a person who:
-  has a strong interest in machine vision research.
-  is also interested in applying machine vision techniques to solve
   practical problems, particularly in industrial inspection.
-  has a willingness to work as part of a multi-disciplinary team in
   a results-driven environment

Application details:
-------------------
Applications including a full CV and the name, addresses, fax, telephone
numbers and email address of at least two referees should preferably
be emailed to:

Dr Chris Bowman
email: C.Bowman@irl.cri.nz

or alternatively faxed/posted to:

Dr Chris Bowman
Industrial Research Limted
P.O. Box 2225
Auckland
New Zealand
ph.  +43 316 876 741 (until October 27th)
     +64 9 303 4116  (from Nov. 17th)
Fax: +64 9 302 8106


Applications close on November 11th 1994.

Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa21447;
          10 Nov 94 21:49:01 EST
Date: Thu, 10 Nov 94 21:47:42 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: PostDoc: Molecular Biology and AI (Canada)

From: janice@qucis.queensu.ca (Janice Glasgow)
Subject: Postdoc Position - Molecular Biology and AI (Canada)
Date: Tue Nov 08 07:02:49 EST 1994
Organization: Computing & Information Science, Queen's University




                         POST-DOCTORAL POSITION
                                  in
                        MOLECULAR SCENE ANALYSIS


A postdoctoral research position is available to work on a project
funded by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC)
of Canada. The project involves the development and application of a
computational approach to the automated analysis of molecular scenes.
A key feature of the project -- which draws from fundamental and applied
research in artificial intelligence and protein crystallography-- is the
investigation of a knowledge-based approach for the segmentation and
interpretation of protein images.

A Ph.D. in computing, chemistry, biochemistry or a related discipline
is required.  Knowledge of protein structure, crystallography and/or
artificial intelligence techniques is desirable.  Computing skills,
including a familiarity with C and UNIX, are essential.

The position involves interaction with an international (Canada, US,
UK and Belgium) and interdisciplinary research team. Primary
interaction will be with the laboratories of Janice Glasgow (Department of
Computing and Information Science) and Suzanne Fortier (Department
of Chemistry) at Queen's University, Kingston, Canada, and the laboratory of
Michael James (Department of Biochemistry) at the University of Alberta,
Edmonton, Canada.  The candidate will initially be based in Kingston,
but extended visits to collaborating laboratories are anticipated.

Salary will depend on experience, but is expected to be in the range of
CDN $29,000 to $35,000. The position is available immediately and
funding is available for up to three years. Renewal for the second and
third year of the position will be contingent on satisfactory performance.

To apply, please send curriculum vitae, copies of the two most relevant
publications,  a brief description of research experience/interests and
the names of three references to:

Dr. Janice Glasgow
Department of Computing and Information Science
Queen's University
Kingston, Ontario
Canada K7L 3N6

Tel: 613 545-6058
Fax: 613 545-6513
Email: janice@qucis.queensu.ca
http://www.qucis.queensu.ca:1999/~janice/imagery.html

Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa21459;
          10 Nov 94 21:50:37 EST
Date: Thu, 10 Nov 94 21:48:50 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: PostDoc: AI & Education, ETS

From: rbennett@rosedale.org (Randy Bennett)
Subject: [1] Postdoctoral Fellowships in Computer Science-AI  -  postdoc.asc 
Date: Tue Nov 08 15:50:39 EST 1994
Organization: Educational Testing Service, Princeton, NJ

Please see the attached announcement about postdoctoral fellowships in
computerscience-AI (as well as other areas of inquiry).  We are
particularly interested in individuals willing to propose rese arch
projects on methods for automatically scoring responses to open-ended
mathematical test questions and on methods for a utomatically
generating questions for mathematics tests.

Please refer inquiries to ldelauro@rosedale.org.


                  EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE

            1995-96 POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
                   Charles E. Davis, Director

DESCRIPTION   Up to four fellows will be selected to conduct
research in association with ETS staff in Princeton, New Jersey,
in one of the following areas:  psychology; education; sociology
of education; psychometrics; statistics; computer science;
linguistics; educational, occupational, or vocational testing;
educational technology; minority issues; testing issues,
including alternate forms of assessment for special populations;
testing issues associated with new forms of assessment, or policy
research.

DURATION  This is a 12-month position, which will run from
September 1, 1995 through August 31, 1996 (includes 1 month
vacation).

GOALS OF THE PROGRAM  To provide research opportunities to
individuals who hold a doctorate in the fields indicated above
and to increase the number of women and minority professionals in
educational measurement and related fields.

SELECTION  The main criteria for selection will be scholarship
and appropriateness of the proposed work for ETS. Affirmative
action goals will also be considered in the selection process.

STIPEND  $30,000 for the 12-month period.  Some relocation
expenses will be provided.

WHO SHOULD APPLY   The program is open to any individual who
holds a doctorate in a relevant discipline and provides evidence
of prior research.

HOW TO APPLY    There is no formal application form.  Applicants
should submit:
     -A resume of educational and job history
     -A description of research interests and experience
     -A detailed proposal describing the research the applicant
would like to pursue during the fellowship year (approximately 5
pages)
     -Official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate studies
     -Letters of recommendation from three people who are
familiar with the applicant's work

DEADLINE   All application materials must arrive at ETS on or
before January 15, 1995.

DECISION    Applicants will be notified by April 30, 1995.

CONTACT  Please direct inquiries and required materials to: Linda
J. DeLauro, Mail Stop 16-T, Educational Testing Service,
Princeton, NJ 08541-0001, Telephone 609-734-1806, Internet:
ldelauro@rosedale.org.




Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa21662;
          10 Nov 94 22:13:28 EST
Date: Thu, 10 Nov 94 22:12:49 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: PostDoc: Case-Based Reasoning

From: braunweg@irsun21.ifp.fr (Bertrand Braunschweig)
Date: Wed Nov 09 05:17:01 EST 1994
Organization: Institut Francais du Petrole

Post-Doctoral Position Available

Case-Based Reasoning for the Reuse of Refining Process Designs

A post-doctoral position starting in 1995 is available within the Artificial Int
elligence Group at Institut Francais du Petrole, Rueil Malmaison, France (near P
aris).

The research subject concerns the development of a case-base and the case select
ion engine for designs of refining processes. More precisely, the selection engi
ne will choose, among a hierarchy of existing cases, the flowsheet(s) closest to
 a newly proposed one, in order to reuse the detailed PIDs (piping and instrumen
tation diagrams) attached to the selected flowsheets. The comparison of cases wi
ll be based on abstract attributes rather than on the actual drawings. Partial c
ases should be accepted when no
 full case matches the criterion.

All drawings are currently stored in a CAD database which contains thousand of f
lowsheets and PIDs.

The following conditions are required for applying for a post-doc at IFP :
    -> nationality : limited to the european union, excluding France
    -> PhD degree in AI/Computer Science obtained preferrably in the last threemonths
    -> duration of stay between 12 and 18 months
    -> speak some french

Candidates should send :
    -> an application letter
    -> a curriculum
    -> a summary of their thesis
`   -> one or two recommandation letters

to

Bertrand Braunschweig
AI Group Manager
Computer Science and Applied Mathematics Division
 Institut Francais du Petrole
1 & 4, Av. de Bois Preau
92506 Rueil Malmaison Cedex
FRANCE

email Bertrand.Braunschweig@ifp.fr


Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa00745;
          11 Nov 94 15:48:49 EST
Date: Fri, 11 Nov 94 15:47:37 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Postdoc: Santa Fe Institute

From: mm@santafe.edu (Melanie Mitchell)
Date: Fri Nov 11 11:45:25 EST 1994
Organization: Santa Fe Institute

POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS AT THE SANTA FE INSTITUTE

The Santa Fe Institute has an opening for one or more Postdoctoral
Fellows in its Simulation, Adaptive Computation and Complex Systems
programs beginning in September, 1995.  The appointment is for one year
with possible extension to additional years.

The Simulation, Adaptive Computation, and Complex Systems programs are
interdisciplinary efforts focusing on advancing our fundamental
understanding of complex adaptive systems and on computational aspects
of their study.  The programs include adaptive computation and
artificial intelligence; the development of general-purpose simulation
environments; the development of organizational modeling and analytic
object libraries; and the theory of complex systems.  They overlap
strongly with SFI research on economics as a complex adaptive system,
the physics of information, modeling the immune system, the evolution of
culture, and artificial life.

Candidates should have a Ph.D. (or expect to receive one before
September, 1995) and should have backgrounds in computer science,
mathematics, economics, theoretical physics or chemistry, game theory,
cognitive science, theoretical biology, dynamical systems theory, or
related fields.  A strong background in computational approaches is
essential, as is an interest in interdisciplinary work.  Evidence of
these interests, in the form of previous research experience and
publications, is helpful.

Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae, list of publications, and
statement of research interests, and arrange for three letters of
recommendation to be sent.  Incomplete applications will not be
processed.

All application materials must be received by February 1,
1995. Decisions will be made by March or April.

Send applications to: Postdoctoral Committee, Santa Fe Institute, 1399
Hyde Park Road, Santa Fe, NM 87501.  Applications or inquiries may
also be sent by electronic mail to: postdoc@santafe.edu.

SFI is an equal opportunity employer.


Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa04965;
          16 Nov 94 13:23:53 EST
Date: Wed, 16 Nov 94 13:22:24 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Postdoc: Univ. Maryland (Minority only)

UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND AT COLLEGE PARK
Postdoctoral Fellowship Program for African-American Scholars for 1995-96

PROGRAM:  Up to 4 postdoctoral fellowships to support the research
projects of outstanding African-American scholars in any discipline.
Scholars will be expected to be in residence during the tenure of the
award.

TENURE:  A one-year or two-year appointment, beginning August 17, 1995.

STIPEND AND ALLOWANCES:  $34,000-36,000 depending on experience, $3,000
for travel or research-related expenses, and fringe benefits

ELIGIBILITY:  African Americans (citizens or permanent resident aliens)
who completed the Ph.D. degree from an accredited university in 1991 or
later, or who will receive the degree by July 1, 1995.

DEADLINE:  January 31, 1995

INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS:  Applications are available from
department chairs at UMCP or:
Graduate School Postdoctoral Fellowship Program
Room 2126, Lee Building
University of Maryland
College Park, MD  20742
Telephone: 301/405-4207
Fax:  301/314-9305




Return-Path: <AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa05160;
          2 Dec 94 10:01:59 EST
Date: Fri, 2 Dec 94 10:00:41 EST
From: AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Postdoc: Computer Vision

From: cabrera@ee.ep.utexas.edu (Dr. Sergio Cabrera)
Summary: Industrial Applications, UT El Paso (Texas)
Keywords: computer vision, image processing, post doctoral, imaging
Organization: CS Dept, University of Texas at El Paso
Date: Wed Nov 30 14:20:55 EST 1994

++++++++++ POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT (SECOND CALL FOR RESUMES) +++++++++++++++++
******  POST DOCTORAL RESEARCH FELLOW IN THE AREA OF *************
IMAGE PROCESSING AND COMPUTER VISION WITH EMPHASIS ON INDUTRIAL APPLICATIONS


Announcement Date:              NOVEMBER 30, 1994 (SECOND CALL FOR RESUMES)
Expected Starting Date:         Jan. 1995
Expected Duration:              12 months
Location:                       Department of Mechanical & Industrial Eng. and
                                Department of Electrical and Computer Eng.
                                University of Texas at El Paso
                                El Paso, Texas, USA

The College of Engineering at the University of Texas at El Paso
is soliciting applications for a post-doc position in the above area.

The position may include the teaching of one course per semester.
The appointment can be extended beyond one year if additional
funding can be secured.  Therefore, the candidate will be expected to assist inthe writing of proposals in the area.

RESEARCH TOPIC:  Initially the work will involve the development and optimizatio
n of
algorithms for industrial inspection using computer vision and other techniques.

The sucessful candidate will have experience in software and hardware for comput
er
vision as well be capable of performing research in some of the following relate
d areas:

- database applications
- signal processing
- computer communications
- distributed systems
- industrial control applications
- radar imaging
- image compression


HOW TO APPLY:  The position will remain open until a suitable
candidate is found.  To be considered, you should mail
(or E-mail) all of the following:

1- Detailed Curriculum Vitae (include FAX and E-mail address)
2- A List of three (3) references with telephone numbers.
3- Estimated date of availability.
4- Immigration status and type of US Visa currently
   held. (We must have this information).

Send the above to:
Prof. J. Rene Villalobos
Dept. of Mechanical and Industrial Eng.
Univ. of Texas at El Paso
El Paso, TX  79968-0521    USA
Tel. (915)747-5450
E-mail: renev@vlobos.me.utep.edu

Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa18780;
          8 Dec 94 17:36:17 EST
Date: Thu, 8 Dec 94 17:35:18 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Postdoc: Parallel Constraint Logic Programming for Molecular Biology

From: cjr@biu.icnet.uk (Chris Rawlings - BIU)
Subject: Research Fellowship - CLP Applications in Molecular Biology
Date: Wed Dec 07 06:44:18 EST 1994
Organization: Imperial Cancer Research Fund


                         Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                         ------------------------
           Applications of Parallel Constraint Logic Programming
                           in Molecular Biology


The Imperial Cancer Research Fund in London has a number of fellowship
positions available funded from the CEC Human and Capital Mobility
programme. Within the portfolio there is a fellowship in the ICRF
Biomedical Informatics Unit to develop the use of Constraint Logic
Programming techniques in Molecular Biology and in particular to genetic
mapping.  This work would develop from research that has been part of
the APPLAUSE project in collaboration with the ECRC and others using the
EliPsys and ECliPse systems.

The fellowship contracts will be for 12 months in the first instance
but further funding from within ICRF or elsewhere would probably be
available depending on the success of the research programme.

Candidates must comply with the usual conditions for HCM fellowships. They
should be EC residents (not UK citizens - unless resident in an EC country
for more than 2 years prior to application). Applicants will be selected
in open competition by the ICRF Laboratory Research Committee.


For more information please e-mail Chris Rawlings on

    cjr@biu.icnet.uk


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chris Rawlings
Biomedical Informatics Unit                   Tel. Direct: +44 (0)171 269 3639
Imperial Cancer Research Fund               Tel. Switchbd: +44 (0)171 242 0200
P.O. Box 123                                          Fax: +44 (0)171 269 3067
Lincoln's Inn Fields
London WC2A 3PX                            Internet email: cjr@biu.icnet.uk
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Return-Path: <Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa22011;
          31 Jan 95 17:28:47 EST
Date: Tue, 31 Jan 95 17:26:53 EST
From: Mark.Kantrowitz@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-jobs@cs.cmu.edu, ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu, ai+ai-predoc@cs.cmu.edu, 
    ai+lisp-jobs@cs.cmu.edu, ai+prolog-jobs@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Admin: Semi-Annual Statistics

This is an automatically generated summary of usage statistics for the
AI-related job mailing lists.

  Subscribers as of January 31, 1995:
    Lisp-Jobs   390
    AI-Jobs     247
    Prolog-Jobs 114
    AI-Postdoc   64
    AI-Predoc    33

    Note: The Lisp-Jobs mailing list was in existence for several
          years before the establishment of the other AI-related
          job mailing lists.

  Job Postings since July 1, 1994:
    Lisp-Jobs    52
    AI-Jobs     142
    Prolog-Jobs   8
    AI-Postdoc    7
    AI-Predoc     2

  Misdirected (un)subscription requests caught by list server: 58
    Lisp-Jobs    15
    AI-Jobs      21
    Prolog-Jobs  10
    AI-Postdoc    4
    AI-Predoc     8

  Queries received by query server since July 1, 1994: 2288



Return-Path: <AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa21820;
          2 Feb 95 19:18:46 EST
Date: Thu, 2 Feb 95 19:17:36 EST
From: AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Postdoc: Constraints (Univ. of Montreal, Canada)

From: pesant@nil.IRO.UMontreal.CA (Gilles Pesant)
Subject: Post-doctoral position - University of Montreal, Canada
Organization: Universite de Montreal -- Laboratoire Incognito
Date: Fri Jan 27 11:48:05 EST 1995

We have a position available for a post-doctoral fellow, applying
constraint programming to the area of gate-level timing verification.

The candidate should have background in either gate-level timing
simulation or timing verification (not necessarily at the gate level),
and have basic knowledge of logic gate networks (e.g., logic design
course). Awareness of test-generation algorithms for gate networks
and/or constraint solving techniques would be an asset. Working
knowledge of Unix and programming in C++ is required.

Background information on the area of work:
E. Cerny and J. Zejda, "Gate-level timing verification using waveform
narrowing", Proc. EuroDAC'94 Conf. Grenoble, Sept. 1994.

Earliest starting date: January 1995.
Salary: 27.5K $CAN/year.

Please, send a CV to the address below, a postscript file by e-mail is
also accepted.


--
Prof. Eduard Cerny, Dep. d'informatique et de recherche operationnelle (IRO);
Pavillon Andre-Aisenstadt, #2143;  Universite de Montreal;
2900, boul.Edouard-Montpetit; C.P. 6128, Succ.CENTRE-VILLE;
Montreal, Que., H3C 3J7 Canada
Tel: (514) 343-7472  e-mail: cerny@iro.umontreal.ca  FAX: (514)-343-5834

Return-Path: <AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa22110;
          2 Feb 95 19:47:59 EST
Date: Thu, 2 Feb 95 19:46:41 EST
From: AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Postdoc: Fuzzy Logic (Singapore)

From: eletansh@leonis.nus.sg (Tan Shao Hua (Dr))
Date: Thu Jan 26 04:58:36 EST 1995
Organization: National University of Singapore

Our research team working on fuzzy control have two immediate opennings for
Post-docs to beef up our manpower need for application projects.
These Post-doc positions are application-oriented, and are therefore
more suited to those who are keen on industrial applications of fuzzy
control.

The two positions are contracted for an initial 2 year peorid, and may be
extended beyond two years depending on the availability of funds.
Candidates should have a PhD degree in EE or CS,
preferably in the field of intelligent control (including fuzzy control,
expert control, and related topics). Priority will be given to those with
industrial experiences in real-time control.  Familarity with
software development in various platforms (especially on PC Windows platform),
are required. Potential candidates must also have hardware experiences
in microcontroller based system and interface design.

Those who are interested in taking up these positions should send their
detailed CV (via e-mail) to me at the following address:

eletansh@leonis.nus.sg

Please include names of two references in your CV as well.


Regards,


Dr Shaohua Tan
Department of Electrical Engineering
National University of Singapore
10 Kent Ridge Crescent
Singapore 0511

Tel. (65)7726326
Fax. (65)7791103

Return-Path: <AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa08338;
          9 Feb 95 16:30:37 EST
Date: Thu, 9 Feb 95 16:27:43 EST
From: AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-jobs@cs.cmu.edu, ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Jobs: Condorcet Project, Univ. of Twente, Netherlands

From: vet@cs.utwente.nl (Paul van der Vet)
Date: Wed Feb 08 11:16:01 EST 1995
Organization: University of Twente, Dept. of Computer Science



                          POSITIONS OFFERED

                      for the Condorcet project

                    Knowledge-Based Systems Group
                      Dept. of Computer Science
                         University of Twente
                           The Netherlands

The Condorcet project is to be carried out at the Knowledge-Based
Systems Group, funded by the Technology Foundation (STW). It aims at
advanced methods for Information Retrieval of texts on engineering and
natural science. The project will involve:
- the development of concept systems, to be used as indexing
languages, and
- the development of a method to assign concepts used as indexing
terms to documents on the basis of semi-automatic analysis of title
and abstract.
Robust natural-language processing is one of the techniques that will
be used.

We offer positions in a challenging project in which several
international and Dutch companies have taken an active interest.

The project is foreseen to start on June 1, 1995, and is to run for
four years. Funding has been granted under the usual STW guidelines.
This means that funding is guaranteed for two years, while the
remaining two years will be funded on the basis of a positive
assessment of the accomplishments of the first 18 months.

The project will be led by dr. P.E. van der Vet and
prof.dr.ir. N.J.I. Mars. Four persons will be hired for the
project. We solicit applications for each of the positions described
below.


                      POST-DOC RESEARCHER (M/F)
                          Vacancy NET/95/035

TASKS: You will investigate knowledge representation languages
and knowledge representation systems and the interplay between
automated syntactic analysis of natural language, grammars, and
knowledge representation. Information retrieval systems will also be
investigated. In addition, you will be charged with daily
supervision of the project (in particular planning and monitoring
progress). The definitive list of responsibilities will be made in
accordance with the qualifications, experience, and interests of the
candidate.

QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D. or equivalent degree in computer science or
linguistics, preferably with sizeable experience in knowledge
representation languages/systems or in language engineering, with in
both cases demonstrable experience in the other field; doctoral
dissertation on a relevant subject matter; familiar, or at least
willing to become familiar, with subjects in natural science; fluency
in English, both in speech and in writing; good social skills;
prepared to remain at the University for the duration of the project.

Your gross salary will depend on experience and qualifications and is
maximally Dfl 7002,-- per month.


           JUNIOR RESEARCHER IN LANGUAGE ENGINEERING (M/F)
                          Vacancy NET/95/036

TASKS: You will test and elaborate an available grammar for Condorcet
purposes. You will also contribute to the development of a
machine-readable lexicon and that of the modules for semantic and
discourse analysis of the texts. Your tasks are aimed at practical
results, and no Ph.D. thesis is foreseen.

QUALIFICATIONS: Masters or equivalent degree in language engineering;
familiar, or at least willing to become familiar, with subjects in
natural science; fluency in English, both in speech and in writing;
good social skills; prepared to remain at the University for the
duration of the project.

Your gross salary will depend on experience and qualifications and is
maximally Dfl 5989,-- per month.


          PH.D. RESEARCHER IN KNOWLEDGE-BASED SYSTEMS (M/F)
                          Vacancy NET/95/037

TASKS: You will investigate knowledge representation languages and
knowledge representation systems for indexing. You will also study the
use of such languages for the representation of background knowledge
and its storage in a knowledge base. In addition, you will design
modules for semantic and discourse analysis of the texts. You are
required to write a Ph.D. thesis.

QUALIFICATIONS: Masters or equivalent degree in computer science, with
emphasis on knowledge-based systems; familiar, or at least willing to
become familiar, with subjects in natural science; fluency in English,
both in speech and in writing; good social skills; prepared to remain
at the University for the duration of the project.

This position falls under the official Dutch regulations for Ph.D.
researchers (the so-called "AiO-stelsel").


                     SCIENTIFIC PROGRAMMER (M/F)
                          Vacancy NET/95/038

The Knowledge-Based Systems Group uses a network of Sun SPARC stations
connected to a fileserver. Programs are developed in Quintus Prolog
and C, under Unix. For demo programs, interfaces under X-Windows will
have to be developed.

TASKS: You will design and implement the system that is the main
practical product of Condorcet and interfaces for purposes of
demonstration. You will pay attention to maintainability and
portability. You will also make tools that are already available fit
for use in the project. You will be a full member of the project team.

QUALIFICATIONS: Relevant degree obtained at a polytechnic or
university; experience with the relevant programming languages and
environments; fluency in English, both in speech and in writing; good
social skills; prepared to remain at the University for the duration
of the project.

Your gross salary will depend on experience and qualifications and is
maximally Dfl 5452,-- per month.


                           MORE INFORMATION

More information is given in the information brochure, which can be
obtained through WWW at URL:

http://www_is.cs.utwente.nl:8080/kbs/condorcet/homepage.html

Alternatively, you can obtain the document through fax or ordinary
mail; requests are to be directed at
phone +31 53 89 36 90
fax   +31 53 33 96 05
with unambiguous identification of the fax number or address to which
the brochure is to be sent.


                        FOR ALL APPLICATIONS:

* In view of current regulations of the European Union, candidates who
are citizens of a European Union member state are preferred.

* The University of Twente is an equal opportunity employer.

* If you are interested, send an email with the vacancy code, your CV,
a list of publications, and names of two persons acting as references
as email message to vet@cs.utwente.nl or mars@cs.utwente.nl. At the
same time, send a letter with the same information to:

Drs. F.J. van der Avert
Dept. of Computer Science
University of Twente
P.O. Box 217
7500 AE Enschede
The Netherlands

or fax to the same person, fax nr. +31 53 33 38 85.

--
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Paul van der Vet                   Phone +31 53 89 36 94 / 36 90
Knowledge-Based Systems Group      Fax   +31 53 33 96 05
Dept. of Computer Science          Email vet@cs.utwente.nl
University of Twente
P.O. Box 217
7500 AE  Enschede
The Netherlands


Return-Path: <AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU>
Received: from GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id aa01047;
          13 Feb 95 11:41:54 EST
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 95 11:39:54 EST
From: AI.Repository@GLINDA.OZ.CS.CMU.EDU
To: ai+ai-postdoc@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Job: Honeywell Technlogy Center

Subject: Pre/Postdoctoral AI internships at Honeywell Technology Center
From: cochran@ssdc.honeywell.com (Ted Cochran)
Date: Thu Feb 09 17:43:26 EST 1995
Organization: Honeywell SSDC

The Systems and Software Technology Area at the Honeywell Technology
Center in Minneapolis has two openings for Artificial Intelligence Interns
with interest in applying AI in complex systems for real-time control.
Special expertise in neural networks, fuzzy logic, temporal reasoning,
decision analysis, agents, user/system interaction modeling, or a related
field is preferred.   Pre-Doctoral Internship applicants should have
completed all coursework for a Ph.D. or equivalent in Cognitive
Psychology,  Computer Science, or a related field.  Post-Doctoral
Internship applicants are also welcome.

The Honeywell Technology Center has sponsored a formal internship program
for over 15 years; the program offers competitive salary and benefits over
a 9-12 month period.  The program is very competitive; typically, twenty
to fifty applications are received for each position.

The Systems and Software Technology Area develops and transfers systems
technologies to help Honeywell Divisions better support their customers in
Home and Building Control, Industrial Automation and Control, and Space
and Aviation Control application domains.

Honeywell is an equal opportunity employer.

For more information, contact:
Terri Sheehan
Artificial Intelligence Internship
Honeywell Technology Center
3660 Technology Drive
Minneapolis, MN 55418
(sheehan_terri@htc.honeywell.com)
