Article 17985 of comp.ai:
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:17985
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!pipex!bnr.co.uk!demon!csd.abdn.ac.uk!pedwards
Newsgroups: comp.ai
From: pedwards@csd.abdn.ac.uk (Pete Edwards)
X-Priority: 1 (Highest)
X-Sender: pedwards@139.133.200.20
Subject: Machine Discovery Workshop - September 93
Date: Tue, 20 Jul 1993 22:01:05 +0000
Message-ID: <9307202201.AA23501@kite>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Lines: 115



          MLNET Workshop on Machine Discovery

                    Blanes, Spain

               September 23-25, 1993

  
                CALL FOR SUBMISSIONS

This workshop will provide a forum for discussion between those working in
the various sub-areas of machine discovery, such as scientific discovery
and knowledge discovery in databases. In addition, it will provide an
opportunity for other members of the machine learning community to hear
about novel uses of existing learning techniques.

This is one of a number of workshops organised by the European Machine
Learning Network of Excellence (MLNET). These workshops are intended to be
"familiarisation" workshops for researchers belonging to the Main and
Associate nodes of MLNET. However, submissions from other researchers will
be considered. MLNET is particularly anxious to encourage research students
and young research workers to partcipate in these workshops.

A list of MLNET nodes appears below:

Main:

University of Aberdeen         (UK)
University of Amsterdam        (NL)
CEAB, Blanes                   (ES)
University of Dortmund         (DE)
Leuven Katholieke Universiteit (BE)
Universite Paris Sud           (FR)
University of Turin            (IT)
Alcatel Alsthom Recherche      (FR)
British Aerospace plc          (GB)
CSELT SpA                      (IT)

Associate:

ARIAI, Vienna (AT), University of Bari (IT), University of Bradford (GB),
Coimbra University (PT), CRIM-ERA, Montpellier (FR), FORTH, Crete (GR),
University of Frankfurt (DE), GMD, Bonn (DE), Ljubljana AI Lab (SL),
University of Nottingham (GB), University of Oporto (PT), Paris VI
University (FR), University of Pavia (IT), University of Reading (GB),
Savoie University, Chambery (FR), University of Stockholm (SE), University
of Tilburg (NL), Trinity College, Dublin (IE), Ugo Bordoni Foundation, Rome
(IT), VUB, Brussels (BE), ISoft (FR), Matra Marconi Space (FR), Siemens AG
(DE).


Workshop Organizing & Program Committee:

Peter Cheng     University of Nottingham, UK
Pete Edwards    University of Aberdeen, UK (Workshop Chair)
Willi Kloesgen  GMD, Bonn, Germany
Marjorie Moulet Universite Paris-Sud, France
Derek Sleeman   University of Aberdeen, UK


Likely topics for submissions include (but are not limited to):

* Taxonomy formation & revision

* Inductive law formation (both quantitative & qualitative)

* Theory formation & revision

* Experiment design

* Discovery of data dependencies

* Integrated tools for database discovery

It is anticipated that the workshop program will consist of two types of
presentation: long presentations (describing completed work) and short
presentations (work in progress); it is also hoped that one or more panel
discussions will take place.


Requirements for Submission
---------------------------

Those wishing to attend the workshop are invited to submit an extended
abstract of 3 to 4 pages in length to the workshop chair (address below) by
Friday, July 23. Electronic submissions *are* acceptable - provided that
either LaTeX or Interchange Format (rtf) are used. 

Abstracts will be reviewed by members of the organizing committee.
Successful submissions will result in a workshop presentation. Authors will
be informed of decisions by Friday, July 30.


Dr Pete Edwards
Department of Computing Science
King's College
University of Aberdeen
Aberdeen, Scotland
AB9 2UE

Email: pedwards@csd.abdn.ac.uk
Fax:   +44 224 273422

