From mmv+@CAMOES.PRODIGY.CS.CMU.EDU Fri Apr  8 18:18:11 EDT 1994
Article: 21507 of comp.ai
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:21507
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!mmv
From: mmv+@CAMOES.PRODIGY.CS.CMU.EDU (Manuela Veloso)
Subject: Call for papers
Message-ID: <Cnsz9r.Fn3.3@cs.cmu.edu>
Originator: mmv@CAMOES.PRODIGY.CS.CMU.EDU
Sender: news@cs.cmu.edu (Usenet News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: camoes.prodigy.cs.cmu.edu
Organization: School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon
Date: Tue, 5 Apr 1994 20:22:39 GMT
Lines: 115

                   CALL FOR PAPERS
                1994 AAAI Fall Symposium


       PLANNING AND LEARNING: ON TO REAL APPLICATIONS

                  November 4-6, 1994  
                    New Orleans, LA

            Submission deadline - April 15, 1994

Planning and learning research has been progressing in parallel over
the past several years, but very few research projects have bridged
the two areas. However, there is a great deal of benefit from their
interaction, especially when they are concerned with real
applications.  As the complexity of planning problems increases, it
becomes of particular interest to identify learning opportunities in
order to automate the acquisition of a planner's knowledge in new
applications.  At the same time, planning problems are a useful
testbed and a source of challenges for learning research.  The goal of
this symposium is to discuss the implications of practical planning
applications on both learning and planning research.

The symposium will highlight empirical work on practical problems as
an invaluable source for understanding the complexity of the planning
task. We expect the analysis and discussion of practical domains to be
a solid basis for turning formal planning and learning algorithms into
efficient practical ones.  As a desirable side effect of the
symposium, we also envision the emergence of an initial comparative
insight into different planning and learning algorithms from a
practical standpoint. In particular we would like to discuss
characterizations of application domains, comparisons of performance
of different planners on the same task, and practical limitations or
power of an approach.

Specific topics of interest for the symposium include:

  - Practical problems: What makes practical real problems different
  from simplified simulated tasks?  What are the  implications  of
  practical problems  for specific  planning  algorithms? What are 
  the learning  opportunities  for specific planning algorithms to  
  handle practical problems efficiently?

  - Learning and  knowledge  acquisition: What  learning  algorithms  
  were developed or extended to address needs of the application?  What  
  tools help extend and maintain planning knowledge?

  - Learning, planning efficiency, and plan quality: What are learning
  opportunities for a planning algorithm? How can a planner improve its 
  efficiency based on its past experience? What are measures of plan
  quality in real applications? How can a planner improve the quality 
  of the solutions it generates?

  - Scaling up: How well does the approach behave in tasks and problems
  of increasing size and complexity?  What issues need to be 
  addressed  and  what  extensions  to  the framework are demanded 
  by particular applications?

  - Domain features: What features of a practical domain stretch the
  representation  language  of a planner?  What dimensions can  be 
  used  to characterize  and compare  application domains? How can 
  search spaces be characterized in terms of the application?

We encourage submissions and participation of theoretical planning
researchers interested in understanding more practical planning
problems and the impact of learning in their algorithms, as well as
contributions on practical planning applications that shed light on
the challenging issues for learning, knowledge acquisition, and
representation in planning domains.  We especially welcome position
papers that present discussions of issues relevant to the workshop as
well as those written by teams with complementary research interests.

The symposium will consist of presentations, invited talks, and
discussion sessions.  In order to encourage participation in the
discussions, the organizing committee will put together a list of
issues of concern from the submissions, and distribute it to the
participants in advance.

To participate, please submit an extended abstract (up to five pages).
Abstracts should be received by April 15, 1994.  Authors of accepted
abstracts will be invited (but not required) to submit a longer paper
for publication in the working notes.  Those interested in attending
should submit a one- to two-page research statement and a list of
relevant publications.  Please include your email address in all
submissions.  Submit four hard copies to:

  Yolanda Gil 
  Information Sciences Institute
  University of Southern California
  4676 Admiralty Way
  Marina del Rey, CA 90292
  (310) 822-1511
  (310) 823-6714 (fax)
  gil@isi.edu

Organizing Committee: 

Steve Chien, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, chien@aig.Jpl.Nasa.Gov; 
Yolanda Gil (co-chair), USC/Information Sciences Institute, gil@isi.edu; 
Drew McDermott, Yale University, mcdermott-drew@cs.yale.edu; 
Dana Nau, University of Maryland, nau@cs.umd.edu; 
Manuela Veloso (co-chair), Carnegie Mellon University, veloso@cs.cmu.edu.


Important dates:

  April 15, 1994        Extended abstracts due

  May 17, 1994          Notification of acceptance mailed

  September 1, 1994     Final versions of accepted papers due

  November 4-6, 1994    AAAI Fall Symposium 




