From alex@bird.ece.uc.edu Mon Dec 27 12:56:10 EST 1993
Article: 20065 of comp.ai
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:20065
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!nntp.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.mic.ucla.edu!library.ucla.edu!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!lerc.nasa.gov!purdue!news.cs.indiana.edu!babbage.ece.uc.edu!bird.ece.uc.edu!alex
From: alex@bird.ece.uc.edu (Perry Alexander)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: CFP: AAAI-94 AI and Systems Engineering Wkshp
Date: 27 Dec 1993 16:49:58 GMT
Organization: University of Cincinnati
Lines: 90
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2fn3nm$ml3@babbage.ece.uc.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bird.ece.uc.edu

Preliminary Announcement
	
		 Call for Papers and Participation

			  AAAI-94 Workshop
		     AI and Systems Engineering

    12th National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-94)
		      Seattle, Washington, USA

	       1 day during July 31 - August 4, 1994

Systems Engineering (SE) is the iterative process of top-down design
and bottom up synthesis and analysis, development, operation,
maintenance and enhancement of a real-world system that satisfies, in
an "optimal" manner, the full range of the requirements for the
product or system.  It encompasses the entire life-cycle of a product
or system, from initial need perception, to requirements formulation,
to partitioning into subsystems, to design, testing, and integration
of subsystems, fielding, maintenance, and system enhancements and
requirements modification.  Because of the increasing complexity of
human-made systems, the integrated approach of Systems Engineering is
one possible solution to the creation of successful, globally
competitive products.

Because of its complexity, interdisciplinary nature and reliance on
human expertise and experience, SE can benefit from techniques and
models developed in AI.  Knowledge Representation, Expert Systems,
Case-Based Reasoning, Constraint-Based Reasoning, Truth Maintenance,
Qualitative Modeling, and Design Theory are some of the techniques
that could be used to help systems engineers.  The intent of this
one-day workshop is to bring together SE and AI researchers and
practitioners to discuss on-going and potential research and
development activities.  We encourage paper submissions presenting
promising ongoing research or developing applications as well as
papers presenting mature research and applications.

Topics include:
 o Modeling of Large, Heterogeneous Systems
 o Systems Level Process Modeling
 o Systems Level Requirements Acquisition, Representation and
 	Verification
 o Systems Level Design Representation and Verification
 o Systems Level Integration and Testing
 o System Maintenance and Change Management
 o Successful and unsuccessful applications of AI to SE
 o Panel discussions concerning future applications of AI to SE

Attendance: Practicing systems engineers and researchers in SE and AI
are encouraged to attend. The attendance will be limited to
approximately 40 people with an even mix from industry and academia.
Attendance will be by invitation only.

Format: Presentations will be brief (10-15 minutes maximum), and will
be followed by a panel discussion between the authors and the
audience, directed by a panel leader. We intend to split the available
time evenly between paper presentations and panel discussion. Workshop
notes will be distributed to all participants.

Submission Requirements: If you wish to present, submit four copies of
an extended abstract (three to five pages) using twelve point font and
8.5''x 11'' page size.  Abstracts may be submitted in electronic
(LaTeX or PostScript) or hard copy form.  Final papers are limited to
a maximum of ten pages in length using twelve point font and 8.5''x
11'' page size, including references and figures. If you only wish to
attend and participate in discussions, send a one-page position paper
describing your interests.  Position papers may be subitted in
electronic (text, LaTeX, or PostScript) or hard copy form.

Submission Deadline:  March 18th, 1994
Notification Date:  April 8th, 1994
Camera Ready Copies Due:  April 29th, 1994

Submit to Workshop Chairperson:

 Dr. Perry Alexander
 ECE Dept, ML #30
 The University of Cincinnati
 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0030
 Perry.Alexander@UC.Edu
 VOICE: 513-556-4762
 FAX:   513-556-7326

Program Committee:
  Dr. Costas Tsatsoulis, Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer
	Science, The University of Kansas
	(tsatsoul@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu)
  Dr. Julian C. Holtzman, Director, Center for Excellence in Computer
	Aided Systems Engineering, The University of Kansas
	(J_Holtzman@qm-gateway.cecase.ukans.edu)


