From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky Wed Aug  4 12:22:06 EDT 1993
Article: 18177 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18177
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky
From: skalsky@public.btr.com (Rick Skalsky UUCPR ed aaai.org skalsky@btr.com)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: AAAI-94 Call for Student Abstracts and Posters
Date: 3 Aug 1993 14:56:52 GMT
Organization: OpenLink, Inc
Lines: 93
Message-ID: <23lubk$8nt@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: aaai-94 students posters abstracts


Twelfth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
(AAAI-94)
Seattle, Washington
July, 31-August 4, 1994

Call for Student Abstracts and Posters

AAAI-94 invites submissions to the student abstract and 
poster program. The goal of this program is to provide a 
forum in which students can present and discuss their work 
during its early stages, meet some of their peers who have 
related interests, and introduce themselves to more senior 
members of the field. The program is open to all pre-PhD 
students. Non-student advisors or collaborators should be 
acknowledged appropriately, as coauthors or otherwise. 
However, students are requested to honor the spirit of the 
program by submitting only work for which they are 
primary investigators.

Requirements for Submission
Authors must submit six (6) printed copies of a two-page 
abstract describing their research to the AAAI office by 
January 24, 1994. Abstracts received after that date will be 
returned unopened. Notification of receipt will be mailed to 
the author. All inquiries regarding lost abstracts must be 
made by February 7, 1994. Notification of acceptance or 
rejection of submitted abstracts will be mailed to the author 
by March 11, 1994. Camera-ready copy of accepted abstracts 
will be due about one month later.

Abstract Format
All six (6) copies of a submitted abstract must be clearly 
legible. Neither computer files nor fax submissions are 
acceptable. Submissions must be printed on 8 1/2" x 11" or 
A4 paper using 12 point type (10 characters per inch for 
typewriters). Each page must have a maximum of 38 lines 
and an average of 75 characters per line (corresponding to 
the LaTeX article-style, 12 point).

Length
All abstracts must be no more than two pages, including: 
title, author's full name, postal address, phone number, e-
mail address, text, any figures, tables, diagrams, and 
bibliography. Papers exceeding the specified length and 
formatting requirements are subject to rejection without 
review.

Submissions to AAAI-94 or other Conferences
Students are free to submit abstracts for work reported in a 
regular paper submitted to the AAAI-94 or another 
conference. Abstracts will be accepted or rejected for the 
student session regardless of the outcomes of related paper 
submissions.

Review Criteria
Each abstract will be reviewed against the following criteria: 
Significance: Does the work address an important problem? 
Originality: Is the problem or approach presented new? 
Clarity: Is the abstract clearly written?

Publication
Accepted abstracts will be allocated one (1) page in the 
conference proceedings. Students will be required to transfer 
copyright of the abstract to AAAI.

Poster Session
Accepted abstracts will be allocated presentation time and 
space in the Student Poster Display area at the conference. 
Student authors of accepted abstracts must agree to prepare 
a poster representing the work described in their abstracts 
and to be available to discuss their work with visitors during 
their allocated time in the Student Poster Display area.

Submissions & Inquiries

Please send abstracts to:
AAAI-94
American Association for Artificial Intelligence
445 Burgess Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025-3496

Registration and call clarification inquiries (ONLY) may be 
sent to the internet address: 

NCAI@aaai.org.

Please send student program suggestions and inquiries to:

Kristian J. Hammond
Department of Computer Science
The University of Chicago
Chicago, IL 60637
hammond@cs.uchicago.edu


