From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky Wed Aug  4 12:21:52 EDT 1993
Article: 18176 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18176
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky
From: skalsky@public.btr.com (Rick Skalsky UUCPR ed aaai.org skalsky@btr.com)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: AAAI-94 Call for Workshop Proposals
Date: 3 Aug 1993 14:55:38 GMT
Organization: OpenLink, Inc
Lines: 98
Message-ID: <23lu9a$8n6@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: aaai-94 workshops


Twelfth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
(AAAI-94)
Seattle, Washington
July, 31-August 4, 1994

Call for Workshop Proposals


The AAAI-94 Program Committee invites proposals for the 
Workshop Program of the American Association for 
Artificial Intelligence's Twelfth National Conference on 
Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-94). Workshops will be held 
July 31--August 4, 1994. Workshop participants will have the 
opportunity to meet and discuss issues with a selected focus-
-providing an informal setting for active exchange among 
researchers, developers and users on topics of interest. 
Members of all segments of the AI community are 
encouraged to submit proposals.

To encourage interaction and exchange of ideas, the 
workshops will be kept small with 25-50 participants. 
Attendance is limited to active participants only. The format 
of the workshop presentations will be determined by the 
organizers. Organizers are encouraged to leave ample time 
for general discussion. Workshops will typically be one full 
day in length, although half-day and two-day proposals will 
be considered.

Proposal Content
Proposals for workshops should be about 2 pages in length, 
and should contain:
- A description of the workshop. Identify the specific issues 
on which the workshop will focus.
- A brief discussion of why the workshop is of particular 
interest at this time.
- The names and addresses of the organizing committee; 3 to 
4 people knowledgeable in the field. Strong proposals 
include organizers who bring differing perspectives to the 
workshop topic.
- An indication as to whether the workshop should be 
considered for a half-day, one or two-day meeting.

We especially welcome proposals which bridge the gap 
between practitioners and theorists, and which encourage 
the submission of experimental results, the formation of 
testable hypotheses, the analysis or comparison of existing 
systems, or the careful elucidation of the results of 
exploratory research.

Submissions
Workshop proposals should be submitted as soon as 
possible but no later than October 15, 1993. Organizers will 
be notified of the committee's decision by November 8, 1993. 
Workshop organizers will be responsible for producing a 
call for participation. The Call is due November 30, 1993. 
This call will be mailed to AAAI members by AAAI.

Participant Selection
Workshop attendance is by invitation of the organizers. 
Selection of attendees will be made by the organizers on the 
basis of submissions due March 18, 1994. Workshop 
organizers will need to provide AAAI with a list of the 
participants by April 8, 1994.

Workshop Note Coordination
AAAI provides a small budget to cover publication, mailing 
and administration support. AAAI can reproduce and mail 
copies of the working notes if materials are received by May 
6, 1994. Working notes may contain a collection of 
statements by participants or other relevant material, but 
must be limited to a total of 200 pages.

Scheduling the Workshop Activities
Workshop organizers who want to publish the papers from 
their workshop (or significant portions of it) will have the 
opportunity to do so through the AAAI Press. The Press 
(which retains the right of first refusal to publish) will 
furnish details of its program to interested organizers and 
authors.

AAAI will provide logistic support, and meeting places for 
the workshops, and will determine the dates and times of 
the workshops. Workshop participants who do not register 
for the main conference will be charged a workshop fee. 
AAAI reserves the right to drop any workshop if the 
organizers miss the above deadlines . Workshops are not to 
be used as a vehicle for marketing products.

Please submit (preferably by email) your workshop proposal 
and address inquiries concerning workshops to:

Don Perlis
Computer Science Department A V Williams Bldg
University of Maryland
College Park, MD 20742 USA
(301) 405-2685 fax: (301) 405-6707
email: perlis@cs.umd.edu 


