From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky Wed Aug  4 12:22:18 EDT 1993
Article: 18178 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18178
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky
From: skalsky@public.btr.com (Rick Skalsky UUCPR ed aaai.org skalsky@btr.com)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: AAAI-94 Call for Videotape Presentations
Date: 3 Aug 1993 14:57:58 GMT
Organization: OpenLink, Inc
Lines: 92
Message-ID: <23ludm$8oh@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: aaai-94 videos


Twelfth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
(AAAI-94)
Seattle, Washington
July, 31-August 4, 1994

Call for Videotape Presentations

The purpose of the Twelfth National Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence is to promote research in artificial intelligence 
(AI) and scientific interchange among AI researchers and 
practitioners. As one means of achieving that purpose, the 
AAAI-94 program committee invites submission of 
videotape presentations of implemented systems which 
illustrate behavior based on principles, methods, and/or 
tools resulting from AI research. Presentations of application 
systems that show the effectiveness of AI research results for 
solving problems of commercial or governmental interest are 
invited, although presentations whose primary focus is on 
the benefits of deployed application systems may be more 
appropriate for submission to the IAAI conference.

The video program will be widely viewable at the 
conference, and will be published by AAAI and available for 
sale after the conference.

Requirements for Submission
Authors must submit three (3) copies of a videotape of not 
more than five (5) minutes duration in NTSC-VHS (US 
standard only) format to the AAAI office by January 31, 
1994. Tapes received after that date will be returned 
unopened. Submissions must be accompanied by a 
submission letter that includes:

(1) Title of the videotape. (2) Full names, postal addresses, 
phone numbers, and e-mail addresses of all authors. (3) 
Duration of tape in minutes. (4) Three copies of an abstract 
of not more than two pages in length, containing the title of 
the video, and full names and addresses of the authors. (5) 
Author's permission to copy tape for review purposes.

Notification of receipt will be mailed to the first author (or 
designated author) soon after receipt. All inquiries regarding 
lost submissions must be made by February 7, 1994. Tapes 
cannot be returned; authors should retain extra copies for 
making revisions.

Notification of acceptance or rejection of submitted tapes 
will be mailed to the first author (or designated author) by 
March 14, 1994. Camera-ready copy of the video's abstract, 
edited in the format specified in the acceptance letter will be 
due about one month later. Authors will also have the 
opportunity to submit a revised version of their videotape 
about one month following notification of acceptance. 
Revised tapes must not be more than five (5) minutes 
duration and must be in NTSC-VHS (U.S. Standard only) 
format.

Review Criteria
Each tape will be rigorously reviewed by experts in the 
subject matter areas of the presentation. The following 
general criteria will guide the selection: Significance and 
originality of system functionality presented; clarity of 
presentation of system functionality and relationship to AI 
research results; quality of presentation (including audio, 
video, and pace). Preference will be given to systems that 
show a high level of maturity. Tapes that are deemed to be 
advertising commercial products, propaganda, purely 
expository materials, merely taped lectures, or material not 
of scientific or technical value will be rejected.

Publication
The accepted videos will be published and available for sale 
after the conference. Abstracts of accepted videos will be 
allotted one page in the conference proceedings. Authors 
will be required to transfer copyright of their abstract (but 
not the video) to AAAI.

Please send videotapes and conference registration inquiries 
to: 
AAAI-94
American Association for Artificial Intelligence
445 Burgess Drive Menlo Park, CA 94025-3496. 

Registration and call clarification inquiries (ONLY) may be 
sent to the internet address: NCAI@aaai.org.

Video Program Chairs: 
John E. Laird and Elliot Soloway
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory
University of Michigan, 1101 Beal Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2110


