From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky Wed Aug  4 12:21:11 EDT 1993
Article: 18173 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18173
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky
From: skalsky@public.btr.com (Rick Skalsky UUCPR ed aaai.org skalsky@btr.com)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: AAAI-94 Call for Papers
Date: 3 Aug 1993 14:47:34 GMT
Organization: OpenLink, Inc
Lines: 243
Message-ID: <23ltq6$8lu@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: aaai ai call conference papers


Twelfth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
(AAAI-94)
Seattle, Washington
July, 31-August 4, 1994

Call for Papers

AAAI-94 is the twelfth national conference on artificial 
intelligence (AI). The purpose of the conference is to 
promote research in AI and scientific interchange among AI 
researchers and practitioners.

Papers may represent significant contributions to any 
aspects of AI: a) principles underlying cognition, perception, 
and action; b) design, application, and evaluation of AI 
algorithms and systems; c) architectures and frameworks for 
classes of AI systems; and d) analysis of tasks and domains 
in which intelligent systems perform.

One of the most important functions served by the national 
conference is to provide a forum for information exchange 
and interaction among researchers working in different sub-
disciplines, in different research paradigms, and in different 
stages of research. Based on discussions among program 
committee members during the past few years, we aim to 
expand active participation in this year's conference to 
include a larger cross-section of the AI community and a 
larger cross-section of the community's research activities. 

Accordingly, we encourage submission of papers that: 
describe theoretical, empirical, or experimental results; 
represent areas of AI that may have been under-represented 
in recent conferences; present promising new research 
concepts, techniques, or perspectives; or discuss issues that 
cross traditional sub-disciplinary boundaries. As outlined 
below, we have revised and expanded the paper review 
criteria to recognize this broader spectrum of research 
contributions. We intend to accept more of the papers that 
are submitted and to publish them in an expanded 
conference proceedings.

Requirements for Submission
Authors must submit six (6) complete printed copies of their 
papers to the AAAI office by January 24, 1994. Papers 
received after that date will be returned unopened. 
Notification of receipt will be mailed to the first author (or 
designated author) soon after receipt. All inquiries regarding 
lost papers must be made by February 7, 1994. Authors 
should also send their paper's title page in an electronic mail 
message to abstract@aaai.org by January 24, 1994. 
Notification of acceptance or rejection of submitted papers 
will be mailed to the first author (or designated author) by 
March 11, 1994. Camera-ready copy of accepted papers will 
be due about one month later.

Paper Format for Review
All six (6) copies of a submitted paper must be clearly 
legible. Neither computer files nor fax submissions are 
acceptable. Submissions must be printed on 8 1/2" x 11" or 
A4 paper using 12 point type (10 characters per inch for 
typewriters). Each page must have a maximum of 38 lines 
and an average of 75 characters per line (corresponding to 
the LaTeX article-style, 12 point). Double-sided printing is 
strongly encouraged.

Length
The body of submitted papers must be at most 12 pages, 
including title, abstract, figures, tables, and diagrams, but 
excluding the title page and bibliography. Papers exceeding 
the specified length and formatting requirements are subject 
to rejection without review.

Blind Review
Reviewing for AAAI-94 will be blind to the identities of the 
authors. This requires that authors exercise some care not to 
identify themselves in their papers. Each copy of the paper 
must have a title page, separate from the body of the paper, 
including the title of the paper, the names and addresses of 
all authors, a list of content areas (see below) and any 
acknowledgements. The second page should include the 
exact same title, a short abstract of less than 200 words, and 
the exact same content areas, but not the names nor 
affiliations of the authors. The references should include all 
published literature relevant to the paper, including 
previous works of the authors, but should not include 
unpublished works of the authors. When referring to one's 
own work, use the third person, rather than the first person. 
For example, say "Previously, Korf [17] has shown that...", 
rather than "In our previous work [17] we have shown 
that...". Try to avoid including any information in the body 
of the paper or references that would identify the authors or 
their institutions. Such information can be added to the final 
camera-ready version for publication. Please do not staple 
the title page to the body of the paper.

Electronic Title Page
A title page should also be sent via electronic mail to 
abstract@aaai.org, in plain ASCII text, without any 
formatting commands for LaTeX, Scribe, etc. Each section of 
the electronic title page should be preceded by the name of 
that section as follows:

title: <title>
author: <name of first author> 
address: <address of first 

author> 
author: <name of last author>
address: <address of last 

author>
abstract: <abstract> 
content areas: <first area>, ..., <last area>


To facilitate the reviewing process, authors are requested to 
select 1-3 appropriate content areas from the list below. 
Authors are welcome to add additional content area 
descriptors as needed.

AI architectures, artificial life, automated reasoning, control, 
belief revision, case-based reasoning, cognitive modeling, 
common sense reasoning, computational complexity, 
computer-aided education, constraint satisfaction, decision 
theory, design, diagnosis, distributed AI, expert systems, 
game playing, genetic algorithms, geometric reasoning, 
knowledge acquisition, knowledge representation, machine 
learning, machine translation, mathematical foundations, 
multimedia, natural language processing, neural networks, 
nonmonotonic reasoning, perception, philosophical 
foundations, planning, probabilistic reasoning, problem 
solving, qualitative reasoning, real-time systems, robotics, 
scheduling, scientific discovery, search, simulation, speech 
understanding, temporal reasoning, theorem proving, user 
interfaces, virtual reality, vision

Submissions to Multiple Conferences
Papers that are being submitted to other conferences, 
whether verbatim or in essence, must reflect this fact on the 
title page. If a paper appears at another conference (with the 
exception of specialized workshops), it must be withdrawn 
from AAAI-94. Papers that violate these requirements are 
subject to rejection without review.

Review Process
Program committee (PC) members will identify papers they 
are qualified to review based on each paper's title, content 
areas, and electronic abstract. This information, along with 
other considerations, will be used to assign each submitted 
paper to two PC members. Using the criteria given below, 
they will review the paper independently. If the two 
reviewers of a paper agree to accept or reject it, that 
recommendation will be followed. If they do not agree, a 
third reviewer will be assigned and the paper will be 
discussed by an appropriate sub-group of the PC during its 
meeting in March. Note that the entire review process will be 
blind to the identities of the authors and their institutions. In 
general, papers will be accepted if they receive at least two 
positive reviews or if they generate an interesting 
controversy among the reviewers. The final decisions on all 
papers will be made by the program chairs.

Questions that will appear on the review form appear below. 
Authors are advised to bear these questions in mind while 
writing their papers. Reviewers will look for papers that 
meet at least some (though not necessarily all) of the criteria 
in each category.

Significance
How important is the problem studied? Does the approach 
offered advance the state of the art? Does the paper stimulate 
discussion of important issues or alternative points of view?

Originality
Are the problems and approaches new? Is this a novel 
combination of existing techniques? Does the paper point 
out differences from related research? Does it address a new 
problem or one that has not been studied in depth? Does it 
introduce an interesting research paradigm? Does the paper 
describe an innovative combination of AI techniques with 
techniques from other disciplines? Does it introduce an idea 
that appears promising or might stimulate others to develop 
promising alternatives?

Quality
Is the paper technically sound? Does it carefully evaluate the 
strengths and limitations of its contributions? Are its claims 
backed up? Does the paper offer a new form of evidence in 
support of or against a well-known technique? Does the 
paper back up a theoretical idea already in the literature 
with experimental evidence? Does it offer a theoretical 
analysis of prior experimental results?

Clarity
Is the paper clearly written? Does it motivate the research? 
Does it describe the inputs, outputs, and basic algorithms 
employed? Are the results described and evaluated? Is the 
paper organized in a logical fashion? Is the paper written in 
a manner that makes its content accessible to most AI 
researchers?

Publication
Accepted papers will be allocated six (6) pages in the 
conference proceedings. Up to two (2) additional pages may 
be used at a cost to the authors of $250 per page. Papers 
exceeding eight (8) pages and those violating the instructions 
to authors will not be included in the proceedings.

Copyright
Authors will be required to transfer copyright of their paper 
to AAAI.

Paper Submissions & Inquiries
Please send papers and conference registration inquiries to:

AAAI-94
American Association for Artificial Intelligence
445 Burgess Drive Menlo Park, CA 94025-3496

Registration and call clarification inquiries (ONLY) may be 
sent to the Internet address: NCAI@aaai.org. 

Please send program suggestions and inquiries to:

Barbara Hayes-Roth, Program Cochair
Knowledge Systems Laboratory
Stanford University
701 Welch Road, Building C
Palo Alto, CA 94304
bhr@ksl.stanford.edu

Richard Korf, Program Cochair
Department of Computer Science
University of California, Los Angeles
Los Angeles, CA 90024
korf@cs.ucla.edu

Howard Shrobe, Associate Program Chair
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, MA, 02139
hes@reagan.ai.mit.edu


