From aha@AIC.NRL.Navy.Mil Thu Mar 10 18:22:23 EST 1994
Article: 5743 of news.announce.conferences
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu news.announce.conferences:5743
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uunet!sparky!sparky!not-for-mail
From: aha@AIC.NRL.Navy.Mil (David W. Aha)
Newsgroups: news.announce.conferences
Subject: CFP: AAAI-94 Workshop on Case-Based Reasoning
Followup-To: poster
Date: 9 Mar 1994 14:40:59 -0600
Organization: Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, DC
Lines: 81
Sender: rick@sparky.sterling.com
Approved: rick@sparky.sterling.com
Expires: 19 Mar 1994 8:00:00 GMT
Message-ID: <2llc8r$41i@sparky.sterling.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: sparky.sterling.com


       Call for Papers: AAAI-94 Workshop on Case-Based Reasoning

OBJECTIVES: Several workshops have encouraged theoretical proposals on
case-based reasoning (CBR).  This workshop focuses instead on
systematic evaluation of CBR theories, models, systems, and system
components (e.g., retrieval, elaboration, adaptation, and learning).
Our goal is to increase awareness of how to conduct such evaluations
so that they yield useful insights for the design of subsequent systems.

TOPICS: (including but not limited to)
 * Comparisons among different CBR systems or components, or between CBR
   and other approaches
 * Descriptions of CBR applications with emphasis on lessons learned from
   user feedback
 * Evaluations of CBR components in systems that employ large case bases
   and abundant domain-specific knowledge
 * Mathematical analyses
 * Computational benefits of cognitively plausible CBR models
 * Evaluation of the cognitive plausibility of CBR models of human cognition

Researchers and practitioners conducting related work from fields not
always associated with CBR are encouraged to participate.  We hope to
accumulate and disseminate knowledge gained from studying CBR-like
algorithms in several fields (e.g., memory-based reasoning, k-nearest
neighbor, etc), thus identifying problem issues and reducing
replications of previous work.

FORMAT: This two-day workshop will include invited talks, paper
presentations, two interactive panel discussions, and a poster session.
The invited talks will include summaries of the performance of
currently fielded CBR systems as well as CBR-related contributions in
areas not traditionally associated with CBR.  The first panel will
focus on the utility and limitations of evaluations.  The first day
will end with the poster session.  The second day will include a panel
on some controversial issue to be determined from the submissions.
Critiques of the field, its direction, and of the workshop's
presentations will also be included on the second day, which will end
with a summary discussion.

ATTENDANCE: Limited to 50 invitees. Additional invitations will be made
as space permits to those who submit written requests.

SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS: Five copies of each paper should be submitted
in hard copy form.  The cover page should contain a title, authors'
names, mailing address, email addresses, telephone numbers, and a
brief abstract.  Papers should not exceed twelve single-spaced pages
including figures and bibliography.  If using hardcopy, then
double-sided submissions are strongly encouraged.  Electronic
submissions (e.g., compressed, uuencoded postscript files) are
also strongly encouraged.

Working notes containing the accepted papers will be distributed.
Authors of accepted papers have the option of including their papers in
the technical report published by AAAI Press for wider distribution.

             SUBMISSION DEADLINE: March 18, 1994
               NOTIFICATION DATE: April 15, 1994 (note change from 4/8)
DEADLINE FOR CAMERA-READY COPIES: April 29, 1994

Please send submissions to:
  David W. Aha
  AAAI-94 CBR Workshop
  Navy Center for Applied Research in AI (NCARAI)
  Naval Research Laboratory
  Code 5514
  4555 Overlook Ave, SW
  Washington, D.C. 20375 USA
  aha@aic.nrl.navy.mil
  (202) 767-9006 | 767-3172 (FAX)

Workshop Committee:
 * David W. Aha
 * Christopher G.  Atkeson, Massachusetts Institute for Technology,
   cga@ai.mit.edu
 * Ray Bareiss, Institute for the Learning Sciences, Northwestern
   University, bareiss@ils.nwu.edu
 * L. Karl Branting, University of Wyoming, karl@eolus.uwyo.edu
 * Ashwin Ram, Georgia Institute of Technology, ashwin@pravda.cc.gatech.edu
 * Evangelos Simoudis, Lockheed AI Center simoudis@aic.lockheed.com
 * Manuela Veloso, Carnegie Mellon University, mmv@cs.cmu.edu


