From skalsky@public.btr.com Thu Jan  6 18:32:59 EST 1994
Article: 20115 of comp.ai
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:20115
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky
From: skalsky@public.btr.com (Rick Skalsky UUCPR ed aaai.org skalsky@btr.com)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: AAAI-94 Conference Workshops
Date: 5 Jan 1994 22:23:44 GMT
Organization: OpenLink, Inc
Lines: 1587
Message-ID: <2gfelg$7a9@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: AAAI-94 Seattle, WA   workshops


Twelfth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-94)
Workshop Program
July 31-August 4, 1994
Seattle, Washington

Sponsored by the
American Association for Artificial Intelligence
445 Burgess Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025
(415) 328-3123
workshops@aaai.org

AAAI is pleased to present the AAAI-94 Workshops Series. Workshops 
will be held Sunday - Thursday, July 31 through August 4, 1994, at the 
Seattle Convention Center. Exact locations and dates for the workshops will 
be determined in early February. The AAAI-94 Workshop Series includes 
twenty-one workshops covering a wide range of artificial intelligence 
topics. Participation at these workshops is by invitation from the workshop 
organizers. Most workshops are one day long; exceptions are noted in the 
individual workshop descriptions. Each workshop is limited to 
approximately thirty to fifty participants. Workshop attendance is free for 
those registering for the AAAI-94 or IAAI-94. There is a $125 registration 
fee for those attendees who do not register for AAAI-94 or IAAI-94. All 
workshop attendees must preregister for the workshops or main conference. 
Workshop working notes will be distributed onsite for participants only.


Submission Requirements

Submission requirements vary with each workshop, and are listed under 
each title. Submissions for all workshops are due March 18, 1994. 
Workshop organizers will notify submitters of acceptance by April 8, 1994. 
Camera ready copy is due back to workshop organizers by April 29, 1994. 
Please mail your submission directly to the chair of the individual 
workshop. Do not mail submissions to AAAI. For further information 
about a workshop, please contact the chair of that workshop.

AAAI-94 Workshop Chair
Don Perlis, University of Maryland



AI and Systems Engineering

Systems engineering (SE) is the iterative process of top-down design and 
bottom up synthesis and analysis, development, operation, maintenance and 
enhancement of a real-world system that satisfies, in an optimal manner, the 
full range of the requirements for the product or system. It encompasses the 
entire life-cycle of a system, from initial need perception, to requirements 
formulation, to partitioning into subsystems, to design, testing, and 
integration of subsystems, documentation, fielding, maintenance, and 
system enhancements and requirements modification. Because of the 
increasing complexity of human-made systems, the integrated approach of 
systems engineering is one possible solution to the creation of successful, 
globally competitive products.

Because of its complexity, interdisciplinary nature and reliance on human 
expertise and experience, SE can benefit from techniques and models 
developed in AI. Knowledge representation, expert systems, case-based 
reasoning, constraint-based reasoning, truth maintenance, qualitative 
modeling, and design theory are some of the techniques that could be used 
to help systems engineers. The intent of this one-day workshop is to bring 
together SE and AI researchers and practitioners to discuss on-going and 
potential research and development activities. We encourage paper 
submissions presenting promising ongoing research or developing 
applications as well as papers presenting mature research and applications.

Topics
-  Modeling of large, heterogeneous systems
-  Systems level process modeling
-  Systems level requirements acquisition, representation and verification
-  Systems level design representation and verification
-  Systems level integration and testing
-  System maintenance and change management
-  Successful and unsuccessful applications of AI to SE
-  Panel discussions concerning future applications of AI to SE

Attendance
Practicing systems engineers and researchers in SE and AI are encouraged 
to attend. The attendance will be limited to approximately 40 people with an 
even mix from industry and academia.

Format
Presentations will be brief (10-15 minutes maximum), and will be followed 
by a panel discussion between the authors and the audience, directed by a 
panel leader. We intend to split the available time evenly between paper 
presentations and panel discussion. Workshop notes will be distributed to 
all participants.

Submission Requirements
If you wish to present, submit four copies of an extended abstract (three to 
five pages) using twelve point font and 8.5" x 11" page size. Abstracts may 
be submitted in electronic (Latex or PostScript) or hard copy form. Final 
papers are limited to a maximum of ten pages in length using twelve point 
font and 8.5''x 11'' page size, including references and figures. If you only 
wish to attend and participate in discussions, send a one-page position paper 
describing your interests. Position papers may be submitted in electronic 
(text, Latex, or PostScript) or hard copy form.

Submit to Workshop Chairperson:
  Perry Alexander
  ECE Dept, ML #30
  The University of Cincinnati
  Cincinnati, OH 45221-0030
  Perry.Alexander@UC.Edu
  513-556-4762
  513-556-7326 (fax)

Organizing Committee
Costas Tsatsoulis, Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, 
The University of Kansas (tsatsoul@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu) and Julian C. 
Holtzman, Director, Center for Excellence in Computer Aided Systems 
Engineering, The University of Kansas (J_Holtzman@qm-gateway.cecase.ukans.edu).



AI in Agriculture and Natural Resource Management

This workshop will cover innovative research in the application of AI to the 
areas of natural and agricultural resource management. The scope of the 
problem domain includes the management and utilization of agroecosystems 
(i.e., farms) and natural ecosystems (e.g., forests, watersheds, recreational 
areas). Rule-based expert systems have become common in these domains. 
It is apparent, however, that this paradigm alone is inadequate for many of 
the problems facing resource managers. Natural and agricultural ecosystems 
are extremely complex. Often, management is toward multiple, and at times 
conflicting, objectives, and the knowledge required to do a creditable 
management job tends to be multi-disciplinary. In the face of these 
problems, researchers are investigating the application of more advanced AI 
techniques. In addition, a growing trend is toward the integration of 
multiple software technologies (e.g., simulation modeling, geographic 
information and database management systems) with AI methodologies. 
This workshop will provide a forum for the discussion of these issues, and 
a venue for interaction between researchers in the field.

Format
This two-day workshop format will inlude 10-15 presentations, plus 
possible discussion periods. Workshop participation will be limited to 
approximately 50 individuals. Persons interested in making a presentation 
should submit an extended abstract (no more than 2 pages) of the proposed 
talk. Special consideration will be given to subjects that move beyond the 
application of rule-based techniques.

Topics
Appropriate topics include:
-  Model-based reasoning in biotic systems
-  Uncertainty in resource management
-  Reasoning with spatial knowledge
-  Case-based reasoning
-  Neural networks
-  Planning
-  Constructing explanations for observed patterns in nature (abduction)
-  Multiple paradigm integration issues
-  Philosophical issues pertaining to machine intelligence and the 
   management of biotic systems.

Submissions and Attendance
Participants who do not want to present should submit a short abstract (a 
page or less) describing their research or interest in the subject area. 
Submissions should be sent, in hard-copy form, to:
  Richard L. Olson
  USDA-ARS, P.O. Box 5367
  Miss. State, MS 39762-5367
  601/324-4367
  rolson@asrr.arsusda.gov

Organizing Committee
Richard Olson, Mississippi State University; Douglas K. Loh, Texas A&M 
University; John Roach, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University; 
Nicholas Stone, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.



AI in Business

Increasingly, AI is moving out of the lab and into business organizations. 
As a result, political, sociamanagerial and technological issues are in 
influencing the introduction of systems into organizational environments. 
This results in some unique opportunities and concerns.

First, approaches that work in the lab do not always work in practice. As a 
result, it is important to examine the use of different methodological 
approaches to different contexts.

Second, with the movement of AI into business settings, there is often the 
need to understand the influence of the business organization on the use of 
AI and the impact of AI on the organization.

Third, other issues such as the integration of AI into existing technology 
usage are also important. For example, implementation issues must address 
the integration of AI with existing database systems and with competitive 
(and complementary) decision making approaches, such as, decision 
analysis and operations research.

Fourth, economic impact becomes a critical concern. Cost benefit analysis 
and the diffusion of AI become important since ultimately the firm is an 
economics-based organization.

Topics
-  Applications: New and unique applications of AI in business.
-  Organizational Issues: Organizational impact of AI in business; worker 
      displacement; management power shifts; and organizational structure issues.
-  Economic Issues: Economics of AI; creating value with AI; cost benefit 
      analysis of AI; economic diffusion of AI cognitive models: audi
  tor
   judgment; bank loan judgment; credit judgment.
-  Integration Issues: Integrating AI and OR; integrating AI into conventi   onal 
   information systems; integration of neural nets and expert systems.
-  Methods: Model-based financial reasoning; qualitative reaso   ning in 
   business models; case-based reasoning in business; multiple agent models.

Format
The one-day workshop will consist of paper presentations, panels, 
discussions and system demonstrations.

Attendance
Academic, practitioner, and international participation is encouraged. 
Participants will be chosen based on materials submitted.

Submission Requirements
Authors should submit a technical paper of 10-20 pages, double spaced; an 
extended abstract of a research project or application of at least three pages; 
or a summary of previous work. Three hardcopies should be sent to

  Dan O'Leary
  3660 Trousdale Parkway
  University of Southern California
  Los Angeles, CA 90089-1421
  213/740-4856
  email: oleary@rcf.usc.edu

Organizing Committee
Dan O'Leary, (chair); John Bailo, (cochair); Arnold Jolles, James Rey, 
Mallory Selfridge, Paul Watkins, and Dan Pirone.



AI in Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems

A major goal of IVHS is to develop a surface transportation system that 
offers increased performance in transporting people and goods and 
improved safety while reducing traffic congestion, accidents, and pollution. 
The federal government authorized more than $200 million for IVHS R&D 
and testing for 1993 alone. However, federal funding is only a portion of 
the overall IVHS market, which is expected to be a multi-billion dollar 
market. Although many projects have been operational or under extensive 
testing in the US, European countries, and Japan, there still remain many 
difficult problems in realizing the goal. The AI community can play a major 
role in IVHS, as a FHWA representative reminded us during the past year's 
workshop.

The major aim of the 1994 one-day workshop will be to bring together 
researchers, engineers, and government officials from both IVHS and AI 
communities. A second aim will be to exchange ideas and approaches 
toward actually solving some of the IVHS problems using AI. We will 
focus on technical issues, discussing IVHS problems that have good use of 
AI, especially in the areas of advanced traffic management systems 
(ATMS), advanced traveler information systems (ATIS), and advanced 
vehicle control systems (AVCS). Those will include, but not limited to: 
incident detection and management; real-time, adaptive signal control and 
simulation;  intelligent sensor systems; optimal route selection algorithms; 
intelligent signal timing plan selection systems;  intelligent decision support 
systems for logstics; intelligent user interface; and dri
er behaviorprediction systems.

Attendance
Key people in IVHS will be invited to give addresses. Papers from the AI 
community are solicited that treat with IVHS problems. Invited participants 
will include representatives from the Federal Highway Administration, state 
and local departments of transportation, Intelligent Vehicle Highway Society 
of America, Transportation Research Board, various universities, research 
organizations, and commercial companies.

Submissions
Send abstracts (3-5 pages, single spaced, hard copy, size 12, with your 
address, telephone number, and email address) to  the workshop chair:
  Yukiko Sekine
  Video Active Technology, Inc.
  3053 Braxton Wood Court
  Fairfax, VA 22031

All accepted papers will be included in the workshop notes, which could 
later be published by AAAI. For any other communication, please send 
email to coorganizer Dr. Gang Len Chang at gang@eng.umd.edu.

Organizing Committee
Yukiko Sekine, (chair), Video Active Technology, Inc.; Gang Len Chang, 
University of Maryland.



AI Technologies for Environmental Applications

This workshop, cosponsored by NASA Ames Research Center, brings 
together two diverse groups of people with the aim of understanding the 
potential and problems of applying AI technologies to environmental 
applications:

-  Researchers and scientists whose goal is to increase our understanding of 
physical, chemical and biological processes - particularly researchers 
studying atmospheric, climatic, ecological oceanic, and solid-earth 
processes - as well as environmental engineers concerned with problems 
regarding pollution control, natural disaster planning, and hazardous 
materials management.
-  AI researchers and practitioners whose goal is to develop and engineer 
methods for automation and information processing required by 
environmental applications; for example, novel methods for acquiring 
sensed data (e.g., Antarctic robotic explorers), systems that assist in 
processing, archiving, and distribution of increasingly diverse and 
voluminous sensed data (e.g., as in earth observing systems), modelling 
earth processes, and planning in data analysis or hazardous waste disposal.

The workshop provides an important and timely forum for participating 
researchers, scientists, and engineers to explore the novel problems 
environmental studies present, and to examine the fruits of traditional and 
non-traditional AI systems as applied to environmental applications. The 
objective of the workshop is to foster discussion, bringing together the 
experience base of environmental scientists and engineers with the 
information handling experience of AI theorists and practitioners.

The workshop will focus on two topics: AI in environmental engineering 
(pollution control, natural disaster planning, hazardous materials 
management); and AI in environmental sciences (hydrological, oceanic and 
ecological systems studies, earth and climate process prediction, and upper 
atmosphere studies). Papers on both applications of existing AI techniques, 
as well as contributions to AI research, are solicited. Papers clarifying the 
information science problems in environmental science and engineering are 
especially welcome.

Suggested Topics
-  Interactive data exploration and discovery
-  Data and knowledge visualization
-  Archival and retrieval methodologies
-  Data integration for environmental monitoring applications
-  Open problems in information processing for environmental studies

Format
The workshop is planned for 2 days with presentations of papers, invited 
talks, open discussions and posters; ample time will be devoted to 
discussions. The workshop is limited to 50 participants. Participants will be 
chosen by program committee on basis of submitted materials or extensive 
relevant research work or publications and willingness to participate in 
discussion.

Submission Requirements
Participants are invited to submit 5 hard copies of a technical paper (not to 
exceed 10 pages, double spaced), or a paper appropriate for poster session. 
Technical papers should include a cover page containing title, authors' 
names, U.S. mail address, email address, and a brief abstract. The 
submitted papers should not have been previously published. Participants 
with relevant research experience who wish to attend should provide details 
of their experience/current research
rojects.

Submit to:
  Cindy Mason
  AI Research Branch, MS 269-2
  NASA Ames Research Center
  Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000
  415/604-0305
  415/604-3594 (fax)
  mason@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov

Organizing Committee
Ron Gore and Ted Metzler, LB & M Associates; Cindy Mason, Rich 
Keller, and Amy Lansky, NASA Ames Research Center; Roger King, 
Mississippi State University; Farid Dowla, Lawrence Livermore National 
Laboratory; Ed Gillis, Automotive Systems Laboratory.



Artificial Intelligence, Artificial Life, and Entertainment 

It is increasingly recognized that the entertainment industry will be one of 
the major industries in which the power of computing plays a key role. This 
is particularly evident when one observes the intense pace of collaborations, 
mergers, and corporate purchases at the boundary between entertainment 
and computing. The popular press has referred to this as "the merger of 
Hollywood and Silicon Valley".

For this merger to succeed in the long term, machines must become 
competent in entertainment industry tasks presently performed by humans. 
This is very much the domain of AI research and development. Thus, this 
workshop focuses on the applications of artificial intelligence and related 
technologies to entertainment.

The purpose of the one-day workshop is that by broadly soliciting papers in 
the area, which has not been studied by much of the AI community in the 
past, we expect to draw an overall picture of AI opportunities in the 
entertainment industry. Also, we expect that information will be exchanged 
to influence AI research directions and to facilitate active resea
rch n AI 
for entertainment.

Topics
We welcome papers that clearly demonstrate use (including both actual use 
and ideas and proposals) of AI and related technologies (such as artificial 
life, neural networks, robotics, and genetic algorithms) in all areas of 
entertainment, including:
-  Film (movie, video, etc) production
-  Computer graphics and animation
-  Interactive fiction, simulated worlds, role playing games
-  Video games
-  Network-based games
-  Virtual reality
-  Autonomous systems and agents
-  Interactive media
-  Music, sound, and speech
-  Drama and story-telling
-  Robotics, animatronics
-  Theme park applications

Format
AAAI-94 will include several activities relevant to the topics of this 
workshop. We expect the conference to attract a variety of people working 
in the area, and intend the workshop to provide an opportunity for many of 
them to meet and discuss plans for further research and development.

Submissions
Send two copies of an extended abstract, no longer than 8 pages, to both 
workshop cochairs.
  Hiroaki Kitano
  Sony Computer Science Laboratory
  3-14-13, Higashi-Gotanda Shinagawa
  Tokyo, 141 Japan
  (+81) 3-5448-4273 fax
  kitano@csl.sony.co.jp
  
  Joseph Bates
  Carnegie Mellon University
  School of Computer Science
  5000 Forbes Ave.
  Pittsburgh, PA 15213 U.S.A.
  412-681-5739 (fax)
  joseph.bates@cs.cmu.edu



Artificial Intelligence in Business Process Reengineering

Business process reengineering (BPR) achieves order of magnitude 
increases in performance through a complete redesign of business 
processes. This workshop will focus on the roles of AI in the design phase 
of business process reengineering, encompassing recent research on AI 
tools for assisting in process design.

Topics
Promising areas for AI in supporting BPR include supporting process 
modeling, generating innovative process models, and combining of 
qualitative and quantitative simulations.

At least three related approaches to modeling are currently being explored. 
The first is knowledge-based simulation, in which the objective is to 
produce a quantitative or stochastic simulation of a business process. AI 
technology provides the knowledge-based environment in which designers 
can specify the model in terms of components and connections, using 
varying levels of structural and type hierarchies, to construct models.

Knowledge-based simulation has demonstrated its value in commercial 
tools. Symbolic evaluation is a second alternative which anayzes a causal 
model of a process in terms of the behavior of its constituent elements in 
order to characterize its global behavior.

Third, qualitative modeling and analysis of processes is useful for modeling 
when the data needed for quantitative or stochastic analysis is not available. 
This approach is illustrated by systems that perform qualitative analysis of 
financial entities.

Each of these techniques, however, has its limitations: the limited inferential 
power of purely qualitative reasoning is well documented, symbolic 
evaluation is often intractable unless the form of the model is carefully 
controlled, and knowledge-based simulation ultimately relies on simulation 
techniques that presume the availability of quantitative data that may be 
simply unavailable. Research efforts in all of these areas have in common 
the need to balance the difficulty of acquiring and constructing the process 
model against the need to produce reliable and informative results from  analysis. Another dimension of modeling concerns arises from the 
fact that 
Barly all BPR efforts require collaborative effort across orga
izational
bondaries, and both modeling an enterprise as is and to be result
an large
andcomplex models, forcing issues of scalability and knowledge ma
agemenato be addressed.

Format
The workshop will be a half day and is intended to stimulate interaction 
between the AI research community and BPR practitioners. Invited authors 
will be given a substantial time slot, followed by a short time slot for a 
respondent with a prepared commentary.

Attendance and Submissions
Attendees may either submit three copies of a technical abstract of up to five 
pages, or a shorter position paper. Invitations to make presentations will go 
to submissions based on relevance to the workshop topic, technical 
contribution, and clarity of presentation. Demonstrations of live programs in 
support of technical presentations will be strongly encouraged. Some 
attendees will be asked to serve as respondents for accepted presentations. 
Fax submissions are discouraged; hardcopy is acceptable; E-mail is 
preferred. Authors of accepted papers must subsequently provide camera 
ready c

opies. 

Submit to:
  Walter Hamscher
  Price WaTrhouse Technology Centre
  68 Willow Road
  Menlo Park, CA 94025
  415/688-6669
  415/617-7869 (fax)
  Walter_Hamscher@notes.pw.com

Organizing Committee
Walter Hamscher, cochair, Price Waterhouse; Pramod Jain, cochair, 
Andersen Consulting; Robert Friedenberg, Inference Corporation; Gerry 
Williams, Andersen Consulting; Dorothy Yu, Coopers and Lybrand.



Case-Based Reasoning

Several workshops have encouraged theoretical proposals on case-based 
reasoning (CBR). This workshop focuses instead on systematic evaluation 
of CBR theories, models, systems, and system components (e.g., retrieval, 
elaboration, adaptation, and learning). Our goal is to increase awareness of 
how to conduct such evaluations so that they yield useful insights for the 
design of subsequent systems.

Topics
Topics include the evaluation of the cognitive plausibility of CBR models of 
human cognition; comparisons among different CBR systems or 
components, or between CBR and other approaches; descriptions of CBR 
applications with emphasis on lessons learned from user feedback; 
evaluations of CBR components in systems that employ large case bases 
and abundant domain-specific knowledge; mathematical analyses; and 
computational benefits of cognitively plausible CBR models.

Researchers and practitioners conducting related work from fields not 
always associated with CBR are encouraged to participate. We hope to 
accumulate and disseminate knowledge gained from studying CBRlike 
algorithms in several fields (e.g., memory-based reasoning, k-nearest 
neighbor, etc), thus identifying problem issues and reducing replications of 
previous work.

Format
This two-day workshop will include invited talks, paper presentations, two 
interactive panel discussions, and a poster session. The invited talks will 
include summaries of the performance of currently fielded CBR systems as 
well as CBR-related contributions in areas not traditionally associated with 
CBR. The first panel will focus on the utility and limitations of evaluations. 
The first day will end with the poster session. 

The second day will include a panel on a controversial issue (to be 
determined), critiques of the field, its direction, and of the workshop's 
presentations, and a summary discussion.

Attendence is limited to 50 invitees. Additional invitations will be made as 
space permits to those who submit written requests.

Submission Requirements
Five copies of each paper should be submitted in hard copy form. The cover 
page should contain a title, authors' names, mailing address, email 
addresses, telephone numbers, and a brief abstract. Papers should not 
exceed 12 single-spaced pages including figures and bibliography.

Working notes containing the accepted papers will be distributed, along 
with a possible AAAI technical
 port.

Please send submissions to:
  David W. Aha
  NCARAI
  Naval Research Laboratory
  Code 5514, 4555 Overlook Ave, SW
  Washington, D.C. 20375 USA
  202/767-9006
  202/767-3172 (fax)
  aha@aic.nrl.navy.mil

Organizing Committee
David W. Aha; Christopher G. Atkeson, MIT, cga@ai.mit.edu; Ray 
Bareiss, Northwestern University, bareiss@ils.nwu.edu; L. Karl Branting, 
University of Wyoming, karl@eolus.uwyo.edu; Ashwin Ram, Georgia 
Institute of Technology, ashwin@pravda.cc.gatech. edu; Evangelos 
Simoudis, Lockheed AI Center, simoudis@aic.lockheed.com; Manuela 
Veloso, CMU, mmv@cs.cmu.edu.



Comparative Analysis of AI Planning Systems

The purpose of this workshop is to categorize the many different 
approaches to AI planning, to begin to understand the relative strengths and 
weaknesses of these competing approaches, and to understand the specific 
ways in which these strengths and weaknesses relate to features of realistic 
application domains. An important aspect of understanding applications of 
planners will be to categorize the tasks that can be addressed, and the 
capabilities of the agents executing the plans.

The workshop will focus on methods for the description, comparison and 
evaluation of existing planning techniques. Papers are solicited that address 
any of the following issues:
-  How can an application of a planner to a problem be analyze   d and 
   evaluated?
-  How can one predict the class of problems to which a planner    will be 
   applied successfully?
-  What are the various components of problem complexity a   nd how will 
   planners scale up as complexity increases?
-  What experiments can be run to answer these questions?
-  Is the application of planners to real problems being held b   ack not by the 
   planning technology per se, but by supporting technology    that needs to be 
   integrated with a planner?

While developing the methodology of evaluation is the goal, papers 
analyzing or evaluating specific problems and planning systems are also 
welcome, provided they exhibit a good methodology for evaluation on 
complex problems. Papers that simply describe the use of a single system 
on a specific application are not appropriate for this workshop.

Schedule
This will be a one-day workshop. The morning and part of the afternoon 
will be devoted to presentation of papers. That will be followed by a panel 
and open discussion aimed at producing a working paper to establish a list 
of technical features included in AI planners, a related list of application 
features, and to begin discussions on how these are being evaluated and 
tested by the participants at the workshop.

Submissions
Submissions should be made to the chair of the organizing committee, either 
in hardcopy or by email. Electronic submissions are strongly preferred. 
Mail four hardcopies or email a standard postcript file, or a latex file that 


uns on vani  la latex.

Submit   to:
  David E. Wilkins
  Artif  icial Intelligence Cente  r
  SRI Internationa  l EJ227
  333 Ravensw  ood Ave.
  Menlo Park, CA 94025
  wilkins@ai.sri.com 

Organizing Committee
David E. Wilkins, (chair), SRI International, wilkins@ai.sri.com; Martha 
E. Pollack, University of Pittsburgh, pollack@cs.pitt.edu; Matthew L. 
Ginsberg, University of Oregon, ginsberg@cs.uoregon.edu; Austin Tate, 
AIAI, University of Edinburgh, A.Tate@ed.ac.uk.



Computational Dialectics


Dialectic is an idea that simply will
 not disappar. It is the idea of 
structured linguistic interactions 
proceeding according tBa largely 
adversarial protocol. Beginning wi
h the ancients, dialecticappears
to many to be synonymous with rationa
lity. Today, computation iforms 
the study and use of such structured dia
ogues. Substantial conaibutions
are now possible from artificial intelligence researchers.

Computational dialectics is meant to describe an area of activity in AI, which 
considers the language and protocol of systems that mediate the flow of 
messages between agents constructing judgement, agreement, or other 
social choice, to recognize or achieve an outcome in a fair and effective 
way.

The study of communal standards for acquiring knowledge and making 
decisions has always been interesting as a basis for computational models of 
deliberation. The study of argument and negotiation in naturally occurring 
dialogues has been the focus of work in language processing and 
explanation generation. The study of analogy and case-based reasoning has 
produced dialectical models that have been successfully applied in the 
domain of conflict resolution, negotiation and legal argument. The 
implementation of nonmonotonic reasoning systems and the semantics of 
logic programming has also converged on dialectic. Philosophers' 
formalization of defeasible reasoning has produced new understanding of 
why dialectic is not merely roundabout proof. Researchers of HCI and 
CSCW have had occasion to study how the interplay of argument, 
counterargument, and rebuttal affects design, clarifies presentation, and 
improves interaction. The rediscovery of pro and con recalls AI's early 
foundations upon max and min.

Goals
The primary goal of this one-day workshop is to identify areas where 
computationally motivated language games can contribute new scholarship 
or interesting software technology.

Historical and rhetorical aspects of dialectic will be considered only to the 
extent that they advance the models of computer scientists. We are interested 
more in what computer scientists will have to say to the dialecticians than 
vice versa.

Format
Efforts will be made to involve established leaders in related fields, and to 
make the best use of the contributions. The format will include both 
presentations and open discussions, and of course, debate. Duration will 
depend on the field of submissions. Plans for future publications are being 
developed.

Topics
-  Standards of correctness, effectiveness, and fairness of protocols.
-  Formal language games for particular kinds    of tasks, such as cooperation, 
   negotiation, argumentation, and conflict resolution.
-  Toolkits for implementing systems that embody dialectical ideas.
-  Work on logics of dialogue, defeasi   ble reasoning, logic programming, 
   uncertain reasoning, case-based r   easoning, legal reasoning, planning, 
   search, or social choice that is aimed at modeling dialectical processes.
-  Applications of formal languag   e games of this kind, in fields such as 
   cooperative design, distributed AI, telecommunications, law, and business.

Submissions
Two kinds of submissions can be made for participation. 1). An extended 
abstract of a paper can be submitted for possible presentation; or 2). A brief 
statement of interest and background can be sent for consideration as a 
participant.

Preference will be made to those who can propose computational 
frameworks for modeling argument and negotiation or otherwise shed light 
on the complexities of dialectical inquiry.

Please include a telephone number and an email address. Submissions can 
be made to any of the committee members and may be electronic. The 
preferred European address is: 
  Thomas Gordon
  GMD
  Postfach 1240
  1 Sankt Augustin
  Bonn, Germany
  thomas@gmdzi.gmd.de

The preferred US address is:
  R. P. Loui
  Box 1045
  Washington University
  St. Louis, MO 63130
  loui@ai.wustl.edu

Organizing Committee
Thomas Gordon (cochair), GMD; R. P. Loui (cochair), Washington 
University; Johanna Moore, University of Pittsburgh, jmoore@ cs.pitt.edu; 
Katia Sycara, Carnegie Mellon University, sycara@cs.cmu.edu. 



Device Function

The explicit representation of device function, and its associated 
recognition, interpretation, evaluation, application, and integration has 
attracted increased interest due to its ability to address large scale problems 
on many abstraction levels without loss of resolution. Device function 
organizes the knowledge associated with, and provides access to, both low-
level device behavior and high-level device use in problem solving, and so 
has been applied in such disparate fields as education, psychology, medical 
diagnosis, engineering design and diagnosis, and computer science.

Objectives
-  Resolve or address problems a   rising from the different research domains 
   and paradigms which comprise the community
-  Construct coherent research approaches for addressing common problems
-  Plot the course of the field of function-based representation and reasoning

Topics
Terminology/Representation: The function-based reasoning community 
generally agrees on the existence of five types/levels of knowledge 
associated with the representation of and reasoning with device function:
-  Structural--structural    characteristics and device appearance, where 
   applicable
-  Behavioral--how function is achieved
-  Functional--observed device input and output
-  Intentional--a device's design intent or use
-  Experiential--a device's interpretation/evaluation in context

There are differing terms for these categories, and differing approaches to 
how these categories should be: related to one another, combined, and 
implemented. Most significant is still the definition of function itself, and 
whether intention should specifically be associated with the representation 
of function. The enthusiastic discussion over terminology and 
representation which was begun at the 1993 AAAI Reasoning about 
Function workshop will be continued at the forthcoming workshop.

Reasoning: What tasks/domains are particularly suited to reasoning with 
functional device models? What processes are involved in exploiting 
knowledge of device function during reasoning? How can reasoning about 
structure, behavior, function, use, and experience be integrated into a 
coherent system?

Applications: An examination of implemented systems, representation and 
reasoning techniques used, evaluation of the system, and lessons learned 
from the experience.

Format
The half-day workshop will consist of moderated presentations and 
discussions. Where appropriate, participants will be invited to display 
posters describing their work. Separate sessions will be devoted to 
terminology and representation issues, reasoning-specific issues, and 
applications.

Participation will be limited to approximately 35 invited people.

Submission Requirements
Those who wish to attend the workshop should submit a 1-2 page research 
summary including: a list of relevant publications, regular and email address 
(where possible), and appropriate voice and fax phone numbers.

Those who wish to present their work at the workshop should also submit a 
short paper (6-8 pages). Specify if the work has been published or 
submitted for consideration elsewhere, and, if so, the journal or conference. 
Unpublished work is preferred for presentation.

Electronic submissions are strongly preferred, especially in LaTeX source 
or PostScript formats. If hardcopy is necessary, please submit four copies. 
Send email to the workshop coordinator for information. All submissio
S
will be reviewed by the organizing committee.

Submit to:
  Jack Hodges
  Assistant Professor
  Computer Science Department
  San Francisco State University
  1600 Holloway
  San Francisco, CA 94132
  415/338-2335
  415/338-6136 (fax)
  hodges@huckleberry.sfsu.edu

Organizing Committee
Dean Allemang, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, 
allemang@lia.di.epfl.ch; David Franke, Trilogy Development Group, 
franke@trilogy.com; Jack Hodges, San Francisco State University, 
hodges@huckleberry.sfsu.edu; Amruth N. Kumar, SUNY Buffalo, 
amruth@cs.buffalo. edu; James K. McDowell, Michigan State University, 
mcdowelj@pleiades. cps.msu.edu; Chris Price, University of Wales, 
cjp@aber.ac. uk; Jon Sticklen, Michigan State University, 
sticklen@cps.msu.edu; Shambhu J. Upadhyaya, SUNY Buffalo, 
shambhu@ cs.buffalo.edu.



Experimental Evaluation of Reasoning and Search Methods

There is considerable current interest in the experimental evaluation of 
reasoning and search methods. The evolving body of experimental work 
has already begun to revitalize work in reasoning and search, and has 
attracted interest (and respect) beyond the normal audience for AI results.

Experimental evaluations of reasoning and search methods allow us to 
identify properties of algorithms and problems that cannot yet be analyzed 
rigorously. As a concrete example, consider the threshold phenomenon in 
3SAT. (In randomly generated 3SAT instances, as the number of clauses 
per variable is increased there is a sharp transition from most instances 
being satisfiable to most instances being unsatisfiable.) The location of this 
threshold has now been determined very precisely, within a few percent 
accuracy, using experimental methods. The best theoretical results give a 
lower- and upper-bound on the threshold value. Using these bounds, one 
can predict the actual location of the threshold with only about 30 percent 
accuracy. For generating interesting test instances for the evaluation of 
satisfiability procedures, we therefore have to rely on the experimentally 
determined threshold value. Similarly, a rigorous analysis of the 
performance of many satisfiability procedures is well beyond the state-of-
the-art in algorithmic analysis. Experimental study of those methods is 
currently our only option.

Another reason for experimental studies of algorithms is the need for 
obtaining average-case results. It is generally agreed that standard worst-
case analysis can lead to an overly pessimistic evaluation of algorithms. The 
obvious alternative is to do some form of average-case analysis. An 
average-case analysis requires, however, a precise characterization of the 
distribution over the input instances as they occur in practice. Such a 
characterization is often not available. Again, experimental work offers an 
alternative: assuming that one has access to a reasonable source of 
instances, one can study empirically the performance of algorithms running 
on those instances.

Of central importance in the evaluation of experimental work are the 
interpretation of the experimental data and the reliability of that 
interpretation. These issues will be the focus of our workshop. Ideally, our 
discussions will lead to a set of standards and possibly benchmarks for 
future experimental work in the area of reasoning and search.

Format
The one-day workshop format will be fairly informal. We expect to divide 
our time roughly evenly between presentations and discussion. The 
workshop will center around the following topics:
-  New experimental results on reasoning and search
-  Proposals for benchmark problem classes
-  Position papers on experimental design and evaluation

Submissions
Prospective participants should submit a short summary of their recent 
research, a position paper, or a technical paper on experimental results or 
benchmark problems. Research summaries and position papers should not 
exceed 4 pages. Technical papers should not exceed 8 pages. Four copies of 
each submission should be sent to:
  James M. Crawford
  CIRL
  1600 Millrace, Suite 108
  Eugene, OR 97403-1269
  or jc@cs.uoregon.edu (Postscript [preferred] or self-contained LaTex).
Please feel free to send questions by email to any of the committee 
members.

Organizing Committee
James Crawford (cochair), CIRL, University of Oregon, 
jc@cs.uoregon.edu; Bart Selman (cochair), AT&T Bell Laboratories, 
selman@research.att.com; David McAllester, MIT AI Lab, 
dam@ai.mit.edu; Mark Stickel, SRI International, stickel@ai.sri.com; Peter 
Cheeseman, NASA Ames Res. Center, cheeseman@pluto.arc.nasa.gov.



Indexing and Reuse in Multimedia Systems

Multimedia systems for documentation, training, entertainment, or news use 
a variety of indexing schemes to annotate and access media for further use. 
As these systems grow, issues of how to represent, acquire, and refine 
indexing knowledge for effective information access and reuse become 
crucial. Yet, analysis of the indexing task and research on indexing methods 
and t
oB for multimedia are just beginning to emerge.

Because automated parsing techniques for time-based and visual media are 
currently in the early stages of development, systems for multimedia 
material must often operate with partial or no representations of their 
information content. However, these systems can still produce information 
that is useful for the end-user. Such hybrid human-machine representation 
and communication provides opportunities to investigate interactive methods 
for index acquisition and refinement, which may complement and even 
improve automatic parsing techniques.

Topics
This workshop focuses on methods and tools for indexing, searching, and 
reusing information in multimedia systems. We would like to bring together 
researchers in knowledge acquisition, case-based reasoning, multimedia 
system design, human-computer interaction, speech and visual perception, 
and other relevant disciplines. We also encourage contributions from video 
archivists, videographers, editors, or sound designers who may not have an 
AI background, but have experience in representing and indexing multiple 
media.
We welcome contributions in the following areas:

Indexing tools:
-  Knowledge acquisition or ma   chine learning techniques to acquire or refine 
   indexing knowledge. Incr   emental refinement of semiformal representations. 
   Incremental generation of hypermedia links, etc.
-  Integration of autom   ated parsing techniques that process signals or text 
   with conceptual (semantic) indexing techniques.
-  Analysis of the typ   es of interactions with humans that a system can use to 
   reorganize its memory.

Index representations and refinement for reuse:
-  Index repre   sentations and reuse for different purposes and classes of 
   users.
-  Completing, generalizing, adding context to indexing schemes.
-  Index rep   resentations and acquisition which address the media-specific 
   properties of time-based and visual media.
-  Com   parison between different indexing schemes: domain-dependent vs. 
   domain   -independent, semantic vs. episodic, absolute (information content) 
   vs. relative (links between information fragments as in hypermedia).
-  Em   sirical evaluation of information organization and reuse in multimedia 
   systems.

The practice of indexing:
-     Case studies and analysis of indexing practice which deal with pragmatic    
   questions: Who are the indexers? How deep must their understanding b   e of 
   the content of the indexed information? When is indexing performed, in 
   real-time during the data generation or after the fact?

Format
The duration of the workshop will be one day and will consist of at most 
fifty (50) participants. To leave time for discussion only a subset of the 
selected papers will be presented. Each session will comprise: presentations 
by authors of selected papers; a short analysis or critique of the papers 
presented by the session chair; and a discussion with the authors and the 
workshop participants. In addition we will have a panel and one or two 
invited speakers.

Submission
Please send four copies of a five-to-twelve-page paper to the workshop 
chair, Catherine Baudin. Those who would like to attend without submitting 
a paper should send a one to two page description of their relevant research 
interests. Presenters are encouraged to bring live demos and/or videos of 
their work. Organizers intend to pursue publication of a selection of the 
accepted papers.
  Catherine Baudin (chair)
  AI Research Branch
  NASA Ames Research CenterMS 269/2
  Moffett Field, CA 94035. USA.
  415/604 4745
  415/604 3594 (fax)
  baudin@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov

Organizing Committee
Catherine Baudin (chair), NASA Ames Research Center; Marc Davis, 
(cochair), MIT Media Laboratory and Interval Research Corp., 
davis@interval.com; Smadar Kedar, (cochair), ILS, Northwestern 
University, kedar@ils.nwu.edu; Daniel M. Russell, (cochair), Apple 
Computer Inc.,dmrussel@taurus.apple.com; Ray Bareiss, ILS, 
Northwestern University; Guy Boy, EURISCO; Tom Gruber, Stanford 
University; Ken Haase, MIT Media Lab; Doug Lenat, MCC; Nathalie 
Mathe, NASA Ames Research Center; Scott Minneman, Xerox PARC; Dick 
Osgood, ILS, Northwestern University; Jim Spohrer, Apple Computer 
Inc.; Meg Withgott, Interval Research Corp.



Integration of Natural Language and Speech Processing

This two-day workshop will focus on research involved in the integration of 
Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Speech Processing (SP). The aim 
here is to bring to the AI community results being presented at 
computational linguistics (e.g. COLING/ACL), and speech conferences 
(e.g. ICASSP, ICSLP).

Although there has been much progress in developing theories, models and 
systems in the areas of NLP and SP we have just started to see progress on 
integrating these two subareas of AI. Most success has been with speech 
synthesis and less with speech understanding.

However, there are still a number of important questions to answer about 
the integration of speech and language processing. How is intentional 
information best gleaned from speech input? How does one cope with 
situations where there are multiple speakers in a dialogue with multiple 
intentions? What corpora (e.g. DARPA ATIS corpora, MAP-TASK corpus 
from Edinburgh) exist for integrated data on speech and language? How 
does discourse understanding occur in multi-speaker situations with noise? 
How does prosodic information help NLP systems?

Topics
Themes for integrated NLP/SP include theoretical issues; systems 
exhibiting; and intelligent multimedia

Issues for integrated NLP/SP include common representations; how NLP 
helps SP and vice-versa; what integration buys us; symbolic versus 
connectionist models; varieties of communication between NLP/SP 
processors; designs; tool; corpora; testing; and possible applications

Workshop Format
Our intention is to have as much discussion as possible during the 
workshop and to stress panel sessions and discussion as well as having 
formal paper presentations. We will also organize a number of presentations 
on site descriptions of ongoing work on NLP + SP. There may be a number 
of invited speakers. The first day will feature theory and modelling for 
integrated NLP and SP. Day two will feature systems for integrated 
NLP/SP, and intelligent multimedia. We hope to have an attendance 
between 25-50 people at the workshop.

Workshop notes will be published by AAAI; further publication may be 
pursued if there is interest.

Submission Requirements
Papers of not more than 8 pages should be submitted by electronic mail to 
Paul McKevitt. Preferred format is two columns with 3/4 inch margins all 
round. Papers must be printed to 8 1/2" x 11" size. Double sided printing is 
encouraged. If you cannot submit your paper by e-mail please submit three 
copies by airmail:
  Paul Mc Kevitt, (chair)
  Department of Computer Science
  Regent Court, University of Sheffield
  211 Portobello Street
  GB- S1 4DP, Sheffield England, UK
  p.mckevitt@dcs.shef.ac.uk
  +44 742 825572 (office)
  +44 742 825590 (secretary)
  +44 742 780972 (fax)

Organizing Committee
Ole Bernsen, Martin Cooke, Noel Sharkey, Eiichiro Sumita, Walther 
V.Hahn, Yorick Wilks, Wolfgang Wahlster, Sheryl R. Young.



Integration of Natural Language and Vision Processing

There has been a recent move towards considering the integration of 
perception sources in artificial intelligence.

It is not clear why there has not already been much activity in integrating 
natural language processing (NLP) and vision processing (VP). Is it 
because of the long-time reductionist trend in science up until the recent 
emphasis on chaos theory, non-linear systems, and emergent behaviour? 
Or, is it because the people who have tended to work on NLP tend to be in 
other departments, or of a different ilk, to those who have worked on VP?

This two-day workshop is of particular interest at this time because research 
in NLP and VP have advanced to the stage that they can each benefit from 
integrated approaches. Also, such integration is important as people in NLP 
and VP can gain insight from each others' work.

Topics
Themes for inte
grated NLP/VP:
-  Theoretical issues
-  Systems exhibiting
-  Intelligent multimedia

Issues for integrated NLP/VP:
-  Common representations
-  How does NLP help VP and vice-versa?
-  What does integration buy us?
-  Symbolic versus connectionist models
-  Varieties of communication between NLP/VP processors
-  Designs
-  Tools
-  Possible applications

Format
Our intention is to have as much discussion as possible during the 
workshop and to stress panel sessions and discussion as well as having 
formal paper presentations. We will also organize a number of presentations 
on site descriptions of ongoing work on NLP + VP. There may be a 
number of invited speakers. We hope to have an attendance between 25-50 
people at the workshop.
  Day One: Theory and modelling for integrated NLP and VP.
  Day Two: Systems for integrated NLP/VP, and intelligent multimedia.

Workshop notes will be published by AAAI. If there is sufficient interest 
we will publish a book on the workshop with AAAI Press.

Submission Requirements
Papers of not more than 8 pages should be submitted by electronic mail to 
Paul McKevitt. Preferred format is two columns with 3/4 " margins all 
round. Papers must be printed to 8 1/2" x 11" size. Double sided printing is 
encouraged. If you cannot submit your paper by e-mail please submit three 
copies by airmail.
  Paul Mc Kevitt, (chair)
  Department of Computer Science
  Regent Court, University of Sheffield
  211 Portobello Street
  GB- S1 4DP, Sheffield, England, UK
  p.mckevitt@dcs.shef.ac.uk
  +44 742 825572 (office)
  +44 742 825590 (secretary)
  +44 742 780972 (fax)

Organizing Committee
Jerry Feldman, ICSI; John Frisby, Sheffield, England; Eduard Hovy, USC 
ISI; Mark Maybury, MITRE; Ryuichi Oka, RWC; Terry Regier, ICSI; 
Roger Schank ILS; Oliviero Stock, IRST; Wolfgang Wahlster, DFKI; 
Yorick Wilks, Sheffield, England.



KDD-94: Knowledge Discovery in Databases

Knowledge discovery in databases (KDD) is an area of common interest for 
researchers in machine learning, machine discovery, statistics, intelligent 
databases, knowledge acquisition, data visualization and expert systems. 
The rapid growth of data and information created a need and an opportunity 
for extracting knowledge from databases, and both researchers and 
application developers have been responding to that need. KDD applications 
have been developed for astronomy, biology, finance, insurance, 
marketing, medicine, and many other fields. Core problems in KDD include 
representation issues, search complexity, the use of prior knowledge, and 
statistical inference.

Topics
This one-and-a-half-day workshop will bring together researchers and 
application developers from different areas, and focus on unifying themes 
such as the use of domain knowledge, managing uncertainty, interactive 
(human-oriented) presentation, and applications. Topics include:
-  Applications of KDD techniques
-  Interactive data exploration and discovery
-  Foundational issues and core problems in KDD
-  Machine learning/discovery in large databases
-  Data and knowledge visualization
-  Data and dimensionality reduction in large databases
-  Use of domain knowledge and re-use of discovered knowledge
-  Functional dependency and dependency networks
-  Discovery of statistical and probabilistic models
-  Integrated discovery systems/theories
-  Managing uncertainty in data and knowledge
-  Machine discovery and security and privacy issues

Format
We also invite working demonstrations of discovery systems. The program 
will include invited talks, a demo and poster session, and panel discussions. 
To encourage active discussion, workshop participation will be limited. 
Working notes will be distributed, and a selected set of papers will be 
considered for publication.

Submissions
Please submit 5 hardcopies of a short paper (a maximum of 12 single-
spaced pages, 1 inch margins, and 12pt font) to reach the workshop chair 
on or before March 18, 1994:
  Usama M. Fayyad (KDD-94)
  AI Group M/S 525-3660
  Jet Propulsion Lab, Caltech
  4800 Oak Grove Drive
  Pasadena, CA 91109
  818/306-6197
  818/306-6912 (fax)
  Fayyad@aig.jpl.nasa.gov

Organizing Committee
Usama M. Fayyad, JPL; Ramasamy Uthurusamy, GM Labs (cochair); 
Rakesh Agrawal, IBM; Ron Brachman, AT&T Bell Labs; Leo Breiman, 
UC Berkeley; Nick Cercone, Simon Fraser; Peter Cheeseman, NASA 
AMES; Greg Cooper, U. Pittsburgh; Brian Gaines, U. Calgary; Larry 
Kerschberg, GMU; Willi Kloesgen, GMD; Chris Matheus, GTE; Ryszard 
Michalski, GMU; Gregory Piatetsky-Shapiro, GTE; Daryl Pregibon, AT&T 
Bell Labs; Evangelos Simoudis, Lockheed; Padhraic Smyth, JPL; Jan 
Zytkow, Wichita State.



Models of Conflict Management in Cooperative Problem Solving

A central aspect of cooperative problem solving is the avoidance, detection, 
and resolution of conflicts among group members. Therefore, conflict 
management is of great theoretical and practical interest in the development 
of models of multiagent problem solving. Work on conflict management has 
occurred in a variety of settings including multiagent planning and design, 
artificial intelligence and law, distributed artificial intelligence, group 
decision support systems, computer-supported cooperative work, software 
engineering, sociology, organizational science, and international relations.

The goal of the workshop is to bring together academic and industrial 
researchers from diverse fields to exchange ideas and promote discussion 
about models of conflict management. Through exploring common themes, 
it is hoped the participants will better understand related work from other 
areas, and can begin to outline a general theory of conflict management 
across multiple domains. The workshop also aims to encourage progress 
toward better models of conflict management and better tools for supporting 
it.

Topics
Papers are encouraged in, but not limited to, the following    topics:
-  What are the current theoretical underpinnings for conflict management, 
   and how can they be applied to pra   ctical problems?
-  How and where are theoretical and computational m   odels of conflict 
   management being used today? How do these models fare in real-world    
   environments?
-  What lessons do empirical studies of conflict management have to offer 
   for the development of the next generatio   n of computational models?
-  How can computers support group conflict management? What are the 
   benefits and challenges of    the different approaches?
-  Which aspects of conflict management are    generic and which are domain-
   specific? Can the same techniques work with human and computational 
   participants?

Format
This full-day workshop will consist of four moderated sessions, each 
focusing on a primary subject area and including:
-  a moderator's overview of co   mmon themes and key issues
-  presentations of selected papers by workshop participants: presenters will 
   be asked to address key    issues identified by the moderators
-  a disc
uion panel, focusing on shared issues rather than on further 
   explanation of participants' individual work.

Workshop participants will also be invited to display posters describing
 
their work.

Attendance
Participation is by invitation only, and will be limited to approximately 35 
people.

Submission Requirements
Those who wish to attend the workshop should submit either: four copies 
of a brief research summary and statement of interest; or for those who wish 
to present current research at the workshop, four copies of a research 
abstract (no longer than 6 pages), focusing on the main contribution of the 
work in preference to introductory material, literature review, etc. Please 
include a list of keywords (e.g, design, planning, CSCW, etc.), the 
authors' electronic and physical address information, and indicate if you 
would like to display a poster at the workshop. Either hard-copy or email 
submissions are welcome.
  Submissions and questions regarding this workshop can be directed to:
  Mark Klein
  Boeing Computer Services
  P.O. Box 24346, 7L-64
  Seattle, WA 98124-0346 USA
  mklein@atc.boeing.com
  206/865-3412
  206) 865-2964 (fax)

or

  Susan Lander
  Computer Science Department
  University of Massachusetts
  Amherst, MA 01003 USA  lander@cs.umass.edu
  413/545-0675
  413/545-1249 (fax)

Organizing Committee
Mark Klein (cochair), Boeing Computer Services, mklein@atc.boeing.com; 
Susan Lander (cochair), University of Massachusetts, 
lander@cs.umass.edu; D.C. Brown, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, 
dcb@cs.wpi.edu; V. Jagganathan, CERC, West Virginia University, 
juggy@cerc.wvu.edu; Simon Kaplan, University of Illinois, 
kaplan@marula.cs. uiuc.edu; Victor Lesser, University of Massachusetts, 
lesser@cs.umass.edu; Stephen Lu, University of Illinois, 
lu@kbesrl.me.uiuc.edu; D. Sriram, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
sriram@athena.mit.edu; Katia Sycara, Carnegie Mellon University, 
sycara@isl1.ri.cmu.edu.



Planning for Interagent Communication 

Planning for inter-agent communication, whether in some natural or 
artificial language, requires real-time planning of resource-bounded 
communicative acts that change other agents' knowledge (and consequently, 
perhaps their actions). Communication planning is a promising domain for 
scale-up of planning techniques because a planner must handle larger 
numbers of interacting constraints than are normally attempted, apply these 
constraints to a larger number of choices in the development and realization 
of a plan, and deal with inherent uncertainties about the effects of a 
communicative action on a recipient. Communication planning has received 
some attention in (at least) the discourse planning, theories of action, 
robotics, and distributed AI communities. The purpose of this workshop is 
to bring together representatives of these communities, with the specific 
objectives of 1) identifying characteristic functional requirements of the 
communication planning problem, supported with examples; 2) identifying 
planning formalisms or models of 
atura language discourse that can 
provide these required functionalities, or identifying functionalities that
have not been modeled, and 3) proposing future research that would facilitate 
progress in at least two of the relevant research communities. The workshop 
will be organized towards the goal of consensus on a union of these 
observations, i.e., a list of functional requirements paired with either 
identified planning formalisms or discourse models or proposals for further 
research.

Topics
Potential topics include how planning formalisms or discourse models can 
(when appropriate):
-  Generate communicative goals and select those worth pursuing,
-  Respect limitations of the recipient's working memory,
-  Rely on the recipient's inferences to achieve communicative goals,
-  Prevent unintentional effects not limited to the negation of explicit goals,
-  Deliberately overload communic   ative acts to achieve multiple goals,
-  Address a single communicative goal in multiple ways to incr   ease the 
   likelyhood of success,
-  Deliberately violate normally-respected conversational rules to achieve a 
   communicative effect,
-  Plan to communicate the goal-structure of the communication itself,
-  Plan to evaluate the success of communicative acts,
-  Be sensitive to prior plans and communications, and to their failures, and
-  Initiate concurrent execution after a temporal resource bound.

Format
The workshop will take place over a day and a half. The first day will be 
divided equally between selected presentations grouped by the issues they 
address and discussion of those issues. A working committee will 
synthesize the day's discussion in the evening, and the second morning will 
be devoted to presentation and discussion of a summary of conclusions and 
issues for further research.

The workshop will be limited to 40 participants, with invitations based on 
submitted position papers.

Submission Requirements
Potential participants should submit a short (2000 words or less) position 
paper, preferably via email in plain text, or in postscript if figures are 
required. If electronic submission is not possible, submit 4 printed copies. 
Invited authors will have the option of including revised versions of their 
papers in a citable AAAI Press Technical Report to be based on the 
workshop.
  Submit to:
  Dan Suthers (chair)
  Learning Research & Development Center
  University of Pittsburgh
  3939 O'Hara Street
  Pittsburgh, PA 15260
  412/624-7036
  412/624-9149 (fax)
  suthers+@pitt.edu

Organizing Committee
Dan Suthers, chair, University of Pittsburgh; Ed Durfee, University of 
Michigan, durfee@caen.engin.umich.edu; Jim Hendler, University of 
Maryland, hendler@cs.umd. edu; Johanna Moore, University of 
Pittsburgh, jmoore@cs.pitt.edu



Reasoning About the Shop Floor (SIGMAN) 

The theme for this year's SIGMAN workshop is interaction and adaptation. 
The shop floor has become increasingly responsive to changes due to 
customer demands, management commitments, and new regulations. 
Together, such factors result in a complex set of interactions to which the 
shop floor operations must be adapted if the manufacturing process is to be 
competitive. Adding to the complexity is the volume of data concerning part 
quality, throughput, inventories, machine status, worker productivity, 
material handling, and finished goods. The assumptions and actions of one 
decision maker may easily conflict with the decisions of another and 
threaten havoc. The application of AI techniques to the practical operational 
problems of the shop floor provides a fertile testing ground for AI research, 
and the opportunity for improving shop floor operations.

Topics
Representation: Given the volume of data and the complexity of 
interactions, how can the dynamic environment of the shop floor be 
represented for both efficient inferencing and human understanding?

Inference, analysis and decision-making: What mechanisms are available 
that allow good enough solutions to be generated in a fixed time period, but 
better solutions to be generated given longer periods of time? How can 
operations research and AI techniques, stochastic modeling and adaptive 
reasoning, reactive and proactive analyses, etc. be integrated for better 
operational decision-making that reflects current shop floor conditions?

Learning: What mechanisms can learn about the shop floor state and identify 
cue conditions that could trigger the application of a particular operational 
strategy?

Scheduling: How can shop-floor level schedules be integrated in a way that 
satisfies the many demands and constraints inherent in the meeting of 
higher-level goals?

Fault detection, isolation, and recovery: Can the onset of shop floor 
contingencies be detected in such a way that the effects of the problems can 
be isolated and plans for recovery generated?

Information management: What mechanisms can be constructed to present 
the human decision maker with clear and relevant information from a large 
volume of shop floor data? Which aspects of decision making should be 
computer-generated and which aspects should be left to shop floor 
personnel?

Regulation: Given that the shop floor is constrained by the regulations of 
both governments and unions as to what operations can take place and how 
they can be executed, what mechanism can be used to propagate constraints 
concerning government and union regulations through the shop floor 
operations, scheduling and control processes?

Format
The one-day workshop will be organized into panel discussions related to 
the topics specified above.

Submissions
All interested in attending the workshop should submit three hard copies of 
a list of relevant publications, activities, etc. All interested in presenting 
papers should submit three hard copies of extended abstracts (no longer 
than five pages). Send all submissions to:
  Leslie Interrante (chair)
  Intelligent Systems Laboratory
  Center for Automation and Robotics
  University of Alabama in Huntsville
  Huntsville, AL 35899
  205/895-6658
  205/895-6733 (fax)
  interr@ebs330.eb.uah.edu

Organizing Committee
Leslie Interrante (chair); Chris Tong (co-chair), ctong@cs.rutgers.edu; 
David Goldstein, goldstn@ncat.edu; Hank Grant, fgrant@nsf.gov; 
Caroline Hayes, hayes@cs.uiuc.edu; Claude Le Pape, lepape@ilog.fr; D. 
Navin-Chandra, dchandra@isl1.ri.cmu.edu; Daniel Rochowiak, 
drochowi@cs.uah.edu; Mike Shaw, mshaw@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu, Stephen 
Smith. sfs@isl1.ri.cmu.edu.



Spatial and Temporal Reasoning

The organizers invite you to participate in examining the common aspects of 
the theory and application of temporal and spatial models in a spectrum of 
apparently disparate areas such as planning, robot control and guidance, 
natural language understanding, assembly plant sequencing and scheduling, 
temporal databases, and concurrent and distributed programming. The one-
day workshop convenes researchers sharing common interests in exploring 
spatial or temporal problems emphasizing highly dynamic problem 
domains. Papers should represent current results, survey the interactions 
between two or more areas of spatial and temporal research, or take a 
position on proposed research directions that can have significant impact on 
one or more of the relevant fields. Contributions which span both spatial 
and temporal; both theory and application; both distributed systems and AI; 
or otherwise represent a synthesis of domains or techniques will be favored.

Topics
Suggested topic areas include, but are not limited to commonalties, 
differences, or integration of spatial and temporal reasoning; temporal 
knowledge representation and reasoning about concurrency; spatial or 
temporal ontologies, constraint satisfaction, beliefs and uncertainty, 
qualitative and quantitative spatial and temporal reasoning; extensions of the 
situation calculus; expressiveness and other evaluations of logics for time 
and space; propagation algorithms for spatio-temporal constraints and 
statistical analysis; implementations of temporal and spatio-temporal logics; 
temporal and active data bases and expert systems

Format
The opportunity for interaction and exchange among the participants will be 
maximized. Using a varied format of invited presentations, keynote 
address, panel, and open discussion, participants are expected to become 
involved in the discussion, potentially leading to new insights about the 
interfaces between space and time, AI and systems, and other related 
domains.

The workshop will consist of approximately 40 invitees, 12 of whom will 
present papers. All attendees will contribute to the working notes and 
participate in discussions. Screening will be based on reviews and relevance 
to the workshop goals; a mix of views is sought.

Submission Requirements
Electronic submissions are solicited in TeX, Latex, or PostScript format. 
Papers, including references, should fit on 4 to 8 single-spaced typewritten 
8.5 x 11 inch pages, in the form of an extended abstract or complete 
research, survey, or position paper. Submit to Frank D. Anger 
(fdang@dcs106.dcsnod.uwf.edu) or Rasiah Loganantharaj 
(logan@cacs.usl.edu)
  Frank D. Anger
  CS Dept., Univ of West Florida
  Pensacola, FL 32514 USA
  904/474-3022  904/474-3129 (fax)

Organizing Committee
Tony Cohn, Univ of Leeds, agc@scs.leeds. ac.uk; Hans W. Guesgen, 
Univ of Auckland, hans@cs.auckland.ac.nz; Gerard Ligozat, 
LIMSI/CNRS & Univ Paris-Sud, ligozat@limsi.fr; Nikki Pissinou, Univ 
of SW Louisiana, pissinou@cacs.usl.edu; Rita V. Rodriguez, Univ of W 
Florida, rrodrigu@dcs106.dcsnod. uwf.edu; Andre Trudel, Acadia Univ, 
trudel@acadiau.ca



Validation and Verification of Knowledge-Based Systems 

Ever since knowledge-based systems (KBS's) were first introduced, 
establishing their quality has been a difficult, persistent problem. However, 
in the last few years new techniques have appeared which address this 
problem. Workshops on this topic have been held at each of the last six 
AAAI national conferences.

The specific objectives of this year's workshop is to focus upon three areas: 
The theory and application of formal techniques of verification and 
validation (V&V) to KBS's; the validation and verification of very large 
KBS's including embedded systems; and consideration of techniques 
applicable to representations other than rule-based production systems.

Topics
Formal Techniques: The application of formal methods and tools to KBS's 
specification and development; life-cycle issues in the development of 
knowledge-based systems including metrics; and formal denotational 
semantic specification issues in relation to knowledge representation.

Very Large KBS: State of the art papers from industry on the V&V of large 
KBS's; technical issues in the V&V of very large systems.

Representational Issues: V&V of embedded or hybrid KBS's, including the 
relationships between the KBS and V&V areas such as neural networks, 
case-based reasoning, parallel implementations, very large scale systems, 
and frame-based, semantic networks and hybrid representations.

Format
This one-day workshop will be divided into five sessions, two in each of 
the morning and the afternoon, and an informal working lunch session. 
Each session may include sequences of short paper presentations, longer 
single paper presentations, and discussion sessions. Short paper 
presentations will be selected and grouped according to the theses of the 
workshop. Each longer paper presentation will focus on a particular topic.

Attendance
The workshop is limited to 50 participants to encourage in-depth discussion 
of topics. Participants will be chosen by the program committee on the basis 
of submitted materials, or extensive KBS V&V experience and a 
willingness to serve as discussant.

Submission Requirements
Participants should submit two copies of either an unpublished technical 
paper (not to exceed 10 double-spaced pages) or unpublished extended (1-2 
page) abstract on the V&V of KBS. Participants with KBS V&V experience 
who wish to attend and who are willing to serve as discussants should 
provide details of their qualifications for this role. Submit to:
  Robert T. Plant (Chair)
  Department of Computer Information Systems, University of Miami
  Coral Gables, Florida 33124
  305/ 284-6105
  305/284 5161(fax)
  rplant@umiami.miami.edu

Organizing Committee
Trevor Bench-Capon, U. Liverpool, T.J.M. Bench-Capon@csc.liv.ac.uk; 
Rose Gamble, U. Tulsa, gamble@tara.mcs. utulsa.edu; Christopher 
Landauer, Aero-space Corp., cal@aero.org; Lance Miller



