From tsatsoul@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu Thu Oct 14 12:42:20 EDT 1993
Article: 19166 of comp.ai
Xref: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:19166 comp.ai.shells:1252
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!library.ucla.edu!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!caen!kuhub.cc.ukans.edu!tsatsoul
From: tsatsoul@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu
Newsgroups: comp.ai,comp.ai.shells
Subject: CFP: Special Issue - Appl. of AI in Systems Eng.
Message-ID: <1993Oct13.110528.54470@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu>
Date: 13 Oct 93 11:05:28 CDT
Organization: University of Kansas Academic Computing Services
Lines: 69





			    CALL FOR PAPERS

	Concurrent Engineering: Research and Applications Special Issue on
		Application of AI Techniques to Systems Engineering

		     PAPER SUBMISSION DEADLINE: March 1, 1994

The Concurrent Engineering: Research and Applications (CERA) journal, published
by Academic Press, announces a call for papers for a special issue to be edited
by Dr. Costas Tsatsoulis and Dr. Perry Alexander. The general area of this
special issue is the application of artificial intelligence to systems
engineering.

CERA is the first international journal to concentrate exclusively on
Concurrent Engineering, and encourages the submission of articles about
research and innovative practical applications across disciplinary lines.

Systems engineering is identified as the process responsible for orderly
development of human-made systems. It encompasses the entire life-cycle of a
product, from initial need perception, to requirements formulation, to
partitioning, to design, testing and integration of sub-systems, system
testing, documentation, fielding maintenance, systems enhancements, and
requirements modification.

Because of its complexity, its reliance on human expertise and experience, and
its information intensive nature, systems engineering can benefit from
techniques and models developed in artificial intelligence. Knowledge
representation, automated reasoning, process modeling, qualitative modeling,
advanced logics, design theory, and decision theory are just some of the AI
areas applicable to systems engineering.

The Special Issue of CERA in Application of AI Techniques to Systems
Engineering wishes to provide a forum for the dissemination of research and
innovative applications that use techniques from Artificial Intelligence to
address problems in Systems Engineering. Specific technical areas for the
special issue include (but are not limited to):

  - AI in requirements management
  - AI for concurrent design
  - AI for project modeling
  - AI for enterprise modeling
  - AI in large, composite system design
  - AI for lifecycle modeling, analysis and support
  - AI for systems-level decision making

Authors should follow standard guidelines for CERA included in each issue or
available from the guest editors. Five copies of each manuscript should be sent
to Dr. Tsatsoulis, attn: CERA Special Issue.

For further clarification, prospective contributors are encouraged to contact
one of the guest editors:

Dr. Costas Tsatsoulis           	Dr. Perry Alexander
The University of Kansas		Department of Electrical and
Dept. of Electrical Engineering	 		Computer Engineering
 	and Computer Science		The University of Cincinnati
1013 Learned Hall			Cincinnati, OH 45221-0030 USA
Lawrence, KS 66045-2228, USA	
tsatsoul@kuhub .cc.ukans.edu    	Perry.Alexander@uc.edu

Papers will be peer reviewed in accordance with the standard CERA review
criteria.

Deadline for paper submissions: March 1, 1994.
Notification of authors: May 15, 1994.


