   Spanish researchers on Fuzzy Sets and Systems  have  a  long  and  known
working tradition in this field. Since 1967 research on Fuzzy Logic and its
applications is successfully being carried out in  Spain.  By  the  present
time more than 20 Universities and Research Centers involve groups  working
in these areas. To coordinate their works and promote and  disseminate  the
methods, techniques and  developments  of  Fuzzy  Logic  and  Technologies,
recently the SPANISH ASSOCIATION FOR FUZZY LOGIC  AND  TECHNOLOGIES  (FLAT)
has been constituted.

   FLAT is presently addressed at the Department. of Computer  Science  and
Artificial Intelligence of the University of Granada, and  its  council  is
integrated by:

          Prof. J.L. Verdegay (President), University of Granada
          Prof. F. Esteva (Vice-President), CEA-CSIC Blanes (Gerona)
          Prof. M. Delgado, University of Granada
          Prof. J. Jacas, Politechnic University of Barcelona
          Prof. E. Trillas, INTA-Madrid
          Dr. A. Sobrino, University of Santiago de Compostela
          Dr. F. Herrera (Secretary), University of Granada

   Until now FLAT integrates almost 100 individual members from all  Spain.
But also some institutional ones, among which the membership of OMRON is to
be remarked, have joined it.

   As its by-laws states FLAT has the following main aims:

- - - Assemble a group of spanish specialists belonging to  different  academic
  fields and professional practices,

- - - advise  those  associates  and  companies  who  so  desire,  on  subjects
  regarding Fuzzy Logic and Technologies and other related matters,

- - - increase  the  organization  of  those  professionals  who  make  up  the
  Association, watching over their interests should this be necessary, and

- - - establish relations with other  national  or  international  Associations
  with similar aims.

   Among  the  activities  to  be  undertaken   for   the   best   possible
accomplishment of these objectives, the following ones are to be addressed:

- - - Organization of seminars and round tables  on  Fuzzy  Logic  and  Techno-
  logies, among other subjects. In particular the III National Congress  on
  Fuzzy Logic and Technologies will be held by end of September at Santiago
  de Compostela. 45 contributions have been  accepted.  The  Congress  will
  include demonstrations, invited lectures, etc.

- - - Organization  of  training,  research  and  improvement  courses  on  the
  aforementioned techniques.

- - - Eventually, the  validation  of  products  related  to  Fuzzy  Logic  and
  Technologies and similar fields, along with the undertaking of activities
  which imply the transfer of technology from this field.

- - - Compilation, selection and distribution of  publications  on  the  afore
  mentioned subjects.

- - - Editing publications: FLAT has forecasted to  edit  the  Journal  of  the
  Association, to be titled MATHWARE. MATHWARE will be presented at the III
  National Congress of FLAT.

- - - Promotion of research and development of subjects related to Fuzzy  Logic
  and Technologies and also other similar fields.

- - - Promotion and collaboration in the  preparation  of  conferences  on  the
  aforementioned subjects. An example  of  this  has  been  the  successful
  European Workshop on Industrial  Fuzzy  Control  and  Applications,  that
  organized by J. Aguilar-Martin was held last April at Tarrasa (Barcelona)

   FLAT has established its registered office  in  the  Dept.  of  Computer
Science and Artificial Intelligence of the University of  Granada.  Faculty
of Sciences. 18071 Granada (Spain), and contact points are

Phone  : +34.58.244017 (19) (95)
Fax    : +34.58.243317
e-mails: decsai@ugr.es
         jverdegay@ugr.es
         fherrera@ugr.es

