From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky Fri Aug 20 16:55:54 EDT 1993
Article: 18464 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18464 comp.ai.edu:1288 comp.ai.fuzzy:1004 comp.ai.neural-nets:11899
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky
From: skalsky@public.btr.com (Rick Skalsky UUCPR ed aaai.org skalsky@btr.com)
Newsgroups: comp.ai,comp.ai.edu,comp.ai.fuzzy,comp.ai.neural-nets
Subject: AAAI-94 Spring Sympsium Call for Participation
Date: 19 Aug 1993 20:10:39 GMT
Organization: OpenLink, Inc
Lines: 1015
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <250mnv$4qm@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: aaai ai spring_syposium participation




AAAI 1994
Spring Symposium Series
March 21 - 23, 1994
Stanford University, California
(Special Symposium, March 19-20)

Call for Participation

Sponsored by the American Association for Artificial Intelligence
445 Burgess Drive
Menlo Park, CA 94025
(415) 328-3123
sss@aaai.org

The American Association for Artificial Intelligence presents the 
1994 Spring Symposium Series, to be held Monday through 
Wednesday, March 21-23 at Stanford University, Stanford, 
California.

The topics of the ten symposia in the 1994 Spring Symposium Series 
are:

-  Active NLP: Natural Language Understanding in Integrated 
Systems

-  Applications of Computer Vision in Medical Image Processing

-  Artificial Intelligence in Medicine: Interpreting Clinical Data

-  Computational Organization Design

-  Decision-Theoretic Planning

-  Detecting and Resolving Errors in Manufacturing Systems

-  Goal-Driven Learning

-  Intelligent Multi-Media Multi-Modal Systems

-  Software Agents

-  Toward Physical Interaction and Manipulation
In addition, an eleventh symposium will be held the preceding 
weekend (19 - 20 March) at the same location:

-  Believable Agents

Symposia will be limited to between forty and sixty participants. 
Each participant will be expected to attend a single symposium. 
Working notes will be prepared and distributed to participants in 
each symposium.

A general plenary session, in which the highlights of each 
symposium will be presented, will be held on March 22, and an 
informal reception will be held on March 21.

In addition to invited participants, a limited number of other 
interested parties will be able to register in each symposium on a 
first-come, first-served basis. Registration will be available by 
December 1993. To obtain registration information write to the 
AAAI at 445 Burgess Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025 (sss@aaai.org).

Submission Dates
Submissions for the symposia are due on October 15th, 1993. 
Notification of acceptance will be given by November 15th, 1993. 
Material to be included in the working notes of the symposium 
must be received by January 31, 1994. See the appropriate section 
below for specific submission requirements for each symposium.

Please note: The symposium on  Believable Agents will be held the 
weekend preceding the remainder of the symposia. Participation in 
this symposium does not preclude attendance at one of the others.


Believable Agents

AI has long sought to construct autonomous creatures. The thought 
of these entities brings special delight when they are imagined to 
project a sense of being "really there" -- aware, intentioned, and 
capable of significant social interaction. Through an analogy 
presented below, let us call these "believable agents."

Many research groups are now trying to build "complete" agents. 
Much of this work occurs under the themes of situated agents and 
integrated architectures, but relevant work occurs across varied 
subareas such as intention, emotion, and discourse.

As computational technology for "complete" agents has developed, 
demand for believable agents has increased in such domains as 
user interfaces and interactive entertainment. Meeting this 
apparently difficult demand might not require accurate modeling 
of human cognitive processes. It might not be necessary to build 
especially intelligent or competent agents, measured in some 
objective sense. The actual requirement is to achieve a persistent 
appearance of awareness, intention, and social interaction.

The arts (film, theater, novels, radio, drama) have long studied a 
related problem. Here the agents are called "characters," and the 
requirement that the characters project the image of being really 
there is called "permitting suspension of disbelief." Artists, (such as 
traditional animators), know much about how to achieve this using 
highly simplified agents (simple body, simple mind, simple 
environment, e.g., Elmer Fudd). They know what abstractions can 
be made safely, and which facets of appearance and behavior are 
crucial to maintain. We believe these artists can convey significant 
useful knowledge to AI researchers trying to construct believable 
interactive creatures.

The goal of the proposed symposium is to bring together 
researchers interested in exploring the idea of "believability" from 
an AI point of view, including a selected set of artists who can shed 
light on traditional notions of, and techniques for, establishing 
suspension of disbelief. We feel this is a fresh way of looking at the 
task of building agents, and that clarifying the nature of this task 
will yield interesting new research problems and useful new 
artifacts.

Among the questions we hope to discuss are: What makes 
characters believable? What makes agents believable? Are agents 
different from characters? What is the nature of current integrated 
architectures and situated agents? How well do they support 
believability? Are there clear areas demanding study? How much 
breadth of capability is necessary to produce a believable agent? 
How much depth (competence) is necessary? What are the 
respective roles of movement and language in achieving 
believability? What is the role of context in establishing 
expectations in the user and thus in simplifying the task? For 
instance, how can the setting of an interface agent or the theme of a 
story help limit the technical requirements on agents? How can we 
measure believability and progress toward believability? Why 
don't artists use "scientifically valid" techniques to evaluate the 
believability of their characters?

Prospective participants should submit a short summary of their 
relevant research and/or artistic activities (two-three pages) that 
emphasizes the fundamental goals of the work, the status of the 
efforts, and especially its relevance to the construction of believable 
agents. Be sure to include a mailing address, telephone number, fax 
number, and email address.

The organizing committee will consider the submissions and invite 
selected participants to present material at the symposium.


Electronic submissions are preferred, but these must be plain, 
unformatted text. If this is impossible, then send hard copy. In 
either case, please send one copy to:
joseph.bates@cs.cmu.edu or
Joseph Bates
School of Computer Science
Carnegie Mellon University
5000 Forbes Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15213

Organizing Committee: Joseph Bates (chair), Carnegie Mellon 
University; Barbara Hayes-Roth, Stanford University; Brenda 
Laurel, Interval Research Corporation; Nils Nilsson, Stanford 
University.


Active NLP:
Natural Language Understanding in Integrated Systems

This symposium is designed to address issues raised by the 
interaction or integration of natural language understanding with 
other cognitive tasks. In particular, this symposium is designed to 
focus on integrated systems whose main task is not extracting 
information from text, and to examine the function and 
implementation of natural language understanding in such 
systems. In particular, one of the overall objectives of the 
symposium is to examine what it means to "understand" natural 
language in the context of integrated systems with non-linguistic 
goals.

In general, the symposium is interested in addressing two 
questions: how does natural language understanding inform or 
constrain the achievement of other cognitive tasks, and how do 
processes aimed at achieving other cognitive tasks inform or 
constrain a theory of natural language understanding? Additional 
questions of interest to this symposium include but are not limited 
to the following:

-  Is knowledge used in other cognitive tasks accessible or 
inaccessible to language understanding processes? What 
constraints and limitations does this pose for the system as a 
whole?

-  How does the behavior of the overall system affect the natural 
language understanding process? What aspects of the task can feed 
back into language, and when?

-  Can the system learn through natural language understanding? 
How does knowledge acquired through language come to be 
accessible to task processes? How does this learning improve the 
overall system's performance?

-  What is the appropriate level of interruptability and 
interleavability in language and task subprocesses?

No specific approach to natural language understanding or other 
cognitive tasks is presumed; indeed, we wish to leave the definition 
of natural language understanding quite open. Papers should focus 
on issues of interaction or integration rather than the tasks 
themselves. Of particular interest are papers that address 
interaction or integration in the context of an implemented system. 
Papers submitted to the symposium should describe the overall 
task of the system, point out in what respect natural language 
understanding ability is useful to such a system, and explain how 
the natural language understanding process is influenced by the 
overall system. To be of maximum benefit to the symposium, 
papers should strive to be technical and implementation-oriented.

Those interested in presenting (not all accepted papers will be 
presented) should submit five pages in the AAAI format. Those 
interested in attending (only) may submit one page on research 
interests in the AAAI format. Four copies of each paper in 
hardcopy must be sent to:
Charles Martin
Department of Computer Science
The University of Chicago
1100 East 58th Street
Chicago, IL 60637

Organizing Committee: Charles Martin, (chair), University of 
Chicago, (martin@ cs.uchicago.edu); Jill Fain Lehman, Carnegie 
Mellon University; Kurt Eiselt, Georgia Institute of Technology; 
Marcel Schoppers, Stanford University).


Applications of Computer Vision in Medical Image Processing 
Description

Significant interest and activity in medical image processing has 
developed among computer vision researchers in the last several 
years. This interdisciplinary activity is still in a relatively early 
stage of development, in terms of applied technology and the size 
of the research efforts.

This symposium is intended to serve several purposes:

-  To bring together vision and robotics researchers who are 
currently applying computer vision to medical image processing 
problems.

-  To increase communication between established researchers in 
medical image processing and computer vision researchers.

-  To provide information to researchers who are interested in the 
field.

Most of the conference will be devoted to paper presentations and 
informal presentations of works in progress, interspersed with 
various forms of discussion. Working notes will be and distributed 
to the participants.

Specific areas of interest include (but are not limited to) image 
guided medical procedures/robotics; image processing applied to 
laparoscopic and other endoscopic procedures; change detection in 
medical images; recognition in medical images; multimodal 
registration of medical images; inelastic registration of medical 
images; motion analysis in medical images; anatomical atlases; 
applications of computer vision in segmentation of medical 
imagery

If you are interested in attending the symposium, please submit an 
abstract of a paper to be presented, a description of research in 
progress, or a statement describing what you hope to contribute to 
and gain from the symposium to:
William M. Wells III (chair)
Harvard Medical School
Brigham and Women's Hospital
Department of Radiology
75 Francis St.
Boston, MA 02115
(617) 278-0622 sw@ai.mit.edu

Organizing Committee: William M. Wells III (chair), Harvard 
Medical School, (sw@ai.mit.edu); Eric Grimson, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology; Ron Kikinis, Harvard Medical School; 
Takeo Kanade, Carnegie Mellon University; Nicholas Ayache, 
INRIA.


Artificial Intelligence in Medicine: Interpreting Clinical Data

The deployment of on-line clinical databases, many supplanting the 
traditional role of the paper patient chart, has increased rapidly 
over the past decade. The consequent explosion in the quality and 
volume of available clinical data, along with an ever more stringent 
medicolegal obligation to remain aware of all implications of these 
data, has created a substantial burden for the clinician. The 
challenge of providing intelligent tools to help clinicians monitor 
patient clinical courses, forecast likely prognoses, and discover new 
relational knowledge, is at least as large as that generated by the 
knowledge explosion which motivated earlier efforts in artificial 
intelligence in medicine (AIM). Whereas many of the pioneering 
programs worked on small data sets, which were entered 
interactively by knowledge engineers or clinicians, the current 
generation of programs have to act on raw data, unfiltered and 
unmediated by human beings. Interaction with human users 
typically only occurs on demand or on detection of clinically 
significant events. This symposium will emphasize methodologies 
that provide robust autonomous performance in data-rich clinical 
environments ranging from busy outpatient practices to operating 
rooms and intensive care units. Relevant topics include intelligent 
alarming (including anticipation and prevention of adverse clinical 
events), data abstraction, sensor validation, preliminary event 
classification, therapy advice, critiquing, and assistance in the 
establishment and execution of clinical treatment protocols. 
Detection of temporal and geographical patterns of disease 
manifestations and machine learning of clinical patterns are also of 
interest.

A large data sample will be made available to participants to serve 
as training and test sets for various approaches to information 
management and to provide a common domain of discourse.

The sample will consist of two data sets: A dense, high volume data 
set typical of a critical care environment. This data set will consist 
of hemodynamic measurements, mechanical ventilator settings, 
laboratory values including arterial blood gas measurements, and 
treatment information covering a twelve-hour period of a patient 
with severe respiratory distress. Monitored parameters (ten to 
fifteen channels of data) will be sampled and recorded at rates up 
to 1/10 Hz. The data set will be annotated with other clinically 
relevant data, physician's interpretations, and established 
diagnoses.

A large number of sparse data sets representative of outpatient 
clinics. The data will include laboratory measurements, treatment 
information, and physical findings on a large sample of patients 
(fifty to one hundred patients) taken from the same disorder 
population. Each patient record will consist of several years worth 
of clinical information sampled at irregular intervals. A large 
percentage of the cases will be made available to interested 
researchers to be used as training cases. For interested parties, a 
small percentage of cases will be made available to participants two 
weeks prior to the symposium to be used as an optional testing set 
for various approaches.

The data samples and accompanying clinical information will be 
available via ftp or email server around August 15, 1993. Please 
contact the organizing committee at the addresses below for further 
information. The data will also be made available on diskettes to 
participants who do not have Internet access. It will be left to the 
discretion of the participants to use any subset of these samples to 
help focus their approaches and presentations. The data can also be 
used as test vehicles for their own research and to create sample 
programs for demonstration at the symposium. Participants do not 
have to use the data in order to participate. However, the program 
committee will favor presentations which exploit the provided data 
sets in their analysis.

Potential participants are invited to submit abstracts no longer than 
two pages (less than 1,200 words) outlining methodology and 
indicating, if applicable, how the data sets may be used as proofs-
of-principle for the proposed methodology. Authors of accepted 
abstracts will be asked to submit a working paper for the working 
notes. They will also be asked to prepare either a poster or an oral 
presentation.


Electronic submissions are encouraged. The abstracts may be sent 
to aim-94@camis.stanford.edu in either ASCII or PostScript formats. 
Submissions may by sent by mail only if you cannot submit an 
abstract electronically. For further information, please contact the 
cochairs at the address below or by email at aim-
94@camis.stanford.edu. Fax submissions will not be accepted. Send 
six copies of the abstract to:
Serdar Uckun, MD, AIM-94
Knowledge Systems Laboratory
Stanford University
701 Welch Road, Bldg. C
Palo Alto, CA 94304
Phone: (415) 723-1915

Organizing Committee: Serdar Uckun, (cochair), Stanford 
University; Isaac Kohane, (cochair), Harvard Medical School; Mario 
Stefanelli, Universita di Pavia; Ramesh Patil, USC/Information 
Sciences Institute; Enrico Coiera, Hewlett-Packard 
Laboratories/Bristol.


Computational Organization Design

Modern private and public organizations are facing immense 
pressures to rapidly reconfigure their processes, products, and 
relationships with other organizations. The cross-functional 
complexity of these changes--including their impacts on the 
technologies that organizations use, the structures of organizations, 
and the integration of human and cognitive issues such as skill 
requirements, cognitive loads, and performance management 
systems--is immense. AI has found numerous applications in 
supporting decision-making in organizations, but few in managing 
the complex issues of organizational design, analysis, 
reconfiguration, reengineering, and process change. The problem of 
capturing and managing this complexity cries out for 
computational design/analysis support, much in the way that other 
large, complex design and analysis problems (e.g., architectural 
design, engineering design) have been supported by automated 
assistance.

At the same time, organization theories and design approaches 
have reached a degree of maturity that they can profitably be 
brought together in the new enterprise of supporting the 
reconfiguration of organizations. This new avenue, which we call 
computational organization design (COD), encompasses both the 
theoretical, practical, and methodological aspects of AI, design, and 
organization theory. The scope of computational organization 
design encompasses both the design of human organizations, the 
design of automated organizations such as intelligent networks, 
and the design of highly-integrated human-technology 
organizations in which there is an integrated division of labor 
between people and computing.

COD is an important research area and an interesting and 
promising class of abstract design problems. Key research 
questions include:

-  How can design process models (DPMs) for organizational 
design be characterized, identified and verified? A DPM is an 
explicit model of the activities carried out while creating a design. 
Adopting a particular DPM amounts to making the hypothesis that, 
over a collection of design problems, applying the DPM will 
generate a useful percentage of highly-evaluated acceptable designs 
with acceptable levels of effort.

-  Can AI, with its unique capabilities for rigorous, qualitative 
inference, provide powerful new capabilities to formalize and 
execute organization theory? For example, most organization 
theory to date makes only qualitative predictions about aggregate 
behaviors of organizations, treating environmental constraints and 
contingencies like point loads at the center of mass of the 
organization.

-  How can COD contribute in practical arenas such as business 
process reengineering and redesign?

-  To what extent can organization design be treated as a routine 
design problem, with a well defined space of possibilities and 
explicit evaluation criteria?

-  Are there any important implications of the fact that 
organizations are abstract objects, subject to constraints of a 
different nature from the constraints that physical objects are 
subject to?

-  How should a DPM for COD differ from DPMs for other 
applications?

-  What role does creative design play in COD?

Other questions are: what is the state of the art of computational 
organization design? What should the agenda for future research 
be?

The goal of this symposium is to bring together researchers from 
the fields of AI, design and organization theory in order to define 
and build a community of researchers active in computational 
organization design. The format of the symposium will be designed 
with the aim to support this goal and will include selected 
presentations and extensive, but closely moderated, discussions.

Anybody who wishes to participate and make a presentation 
should submit an extended abstract (500-1000 words) of the 
presentation. The character of presentations may vary widely and 
include: complete results, experimental data, report on work in 
progress, theoretical analysis and thoughtful speculations. Other 
prospective participants should submit a statement (approximately 
500 words) explaining their interests and experiences related to 
COD and what they can contribute to the discussions. Please 
include references to all your publications related to COD in your 
submission. The number of participants is limited and invitations 
will be made based on a review of the submissions.


Submissions may be included in working notes distributed to the 
participants, for discussion purposes only. No other distribution of 
submissions will be made by the organizing committee or AAAI, 
without written permission of the authors.

Email submissions are preferred (ASCII or LaTeX); otherwise 
submit four hardcopies, or (as a last resort) fax one copy to:
Ingemar Hulthage
Institute of Safety and
Systems Management
University of Southern California
Los Angeles, CA 90089-0021
(213) 740-4044 (voice)
(213) 740-9732 (fax)
hulthage@usc.edu (email)

Organizing Committee: Ingemar Hulthage, (chair), University of 
Southern California, hulthage@usc.edu; Raymond E. Levitt, 
Stanford University; Duvvuru Sriram, MIT; Sarosh Talukdar, 
Carnegie-Mellon University.


Decision-Theoretic Planning

Both AI planning and decision theory are devoted to the problem of 
how an agent chooses a good course of action, based on 
information about the world and about the agent's capabilities and 
preferences.

The AI community has concentrated on the task of synthesis: given 
a description of a situation, schematic descriptions of actions with 
methods for composing them, and some objectives, generate a 
course of action that furthers those objectives. Classical planning 
algorithms have for the most part assumed that the agent has 
perfect information about and control over the world, and that the 
objectives are described by a symbolic goal state that either is or is 
not satisfied.

These simplifying assumptions conspire to make it difficult to 
reason about tradeoffs in the planning process, in particular 
tradeoffs involving the relative likelihood and desirability of 
possible plan outcomes. Under the classical assumptions, both plan 
success and plan quality are all-or-nothing propositions.

Decision theory provides a language for expressing richer notions 
of success and quality, along with a normative criterion for making 
tradeoffs among plans achieving the objectives with varying 
degrees and likelihoods. Decision theory lacks a computational 
model of how to generate those plans in the first place, however, 
and thus does not address the synthesis task.

This symposium aims to unify current lines of research in the AI 
planning community with research in related disciplines--decision 
analysis, economics, and control theory--by exploring how the 
richer constructs offered by the decision-theoretic methodology for 
describing preference and uncertainty can be applied to the 
problem of plan synthesis. Although AI and decision theory have 
sometimes been viewed as competing approaches, a growing 
number of researchers have begun to appreciate their 
complementary character, and are starting to address the challenge 
of integrating these ideas.

We invite contributions pertaining to all aspects of decision-
theoretic planning, particularly those making substantive 
connections between the two fields. Topics will include, but are not 
limited to:

-  Representing and reasoning about preferences. How can AI 
planning's notion of goals be extended to richer utility models? 
How do we represent concepts such as partial goal satisfaction, the 
cost of consuming resources, multiple objectives, and so on?

-  Uncertain effects of actions. How can causal or action models be 
extended to take into account uncertainty about the state of the 
world, the effects of actions, and exogenous events? How do we 
represent information-gathering actions (e.g. active sensing), and 
cope with the complexity of conditional planning?

-  Model construction. How can representations and techniques 
from the decision sciences and other disciplines--e.g., graphical 
decision models such as influence diagrams and solution 
techniques such as policy iteration--be applied to the problem of 
plan generation? In particular, how can we exploit these 
technologies without unduly restricting the expressiveness of our 
representation for actions and their effects?

-  Specialized problems and representations. For example, what is 
the relationship between decision-theoretic techniques for path- 
and motion-planning problems that generally describe their state 
spaces and operators numerically and the problems involving 
symbolic state spaces and operators more typically addressed by AI 
planning research?

-  Decision-theoretic meta-level reasoning. How can decision-
theoretic criteria be applied to the problem of controlling the 
reasoning of an agent so that it behaves rationally without 
(necessarily) using decision-theoretic calculations to make its 
decisions? Possible techniques include the use of decision theory to 
control the plan-generation process itself, and using the 
methodology to precompile rational behaviors.

Various groups in AI, in the decision sciences, in control theory, 
and in economics have been pursuing research efforts using the 
concepts and techniques underlying decision-theoretic planning. 
The efforts have varied in the issues they consider important and in 
the simplifying assumptions they make. This symposium will 
provide a forum for exploring these differences, with the aim of 
distinguishing the fundamental barriers from those merely cultural 
or terminological. By cross-fertilizing the ideas from several 
decision disciplines (of which AI planning is one), we will 
ultimately arrive at a better understanding of the common 
enterprise.

We invite extended abstracts (maximum five pages) of two sorts:

-  Technical contributions describing progress or addressing issues 
in decision-theoretic planning. We welcome abstracts reporting on 
work in progress.

-  Position papers describing viewpoints on the enterprise of 
decision-theoretic planning, or advocating particular approaches.

Those wishing to attend but not applying to participate in the 
symposium's technical or panel presentations should submit a one 
to two page statement of interest indicating the submitter's 
particular interest in the symposium's topic, specifically addressing 
how his or her research or experience attacks the problem of 
reconciling the decision-theoretic and AI planning approaches to 
problem solving (or would benefit from such a reconciliation).

We strongly encourage electronic submissions. Send submissions 
and questions to dtpsymposium@ cs.washington.edu. Send paper 
submissions to:
Steve Hanks
Department of Computer Science 
& Engineering
Room 114, Sieg Hall
University of Washington, FR-35
Seattle, WA 98195
206/543-4784

Organizing Committee: Steve Hanks, (chair), University of 
Washington, hanks@cs.washington.edu; Stuart Russell, University 
of California, Berkeley; Michael P. Wellman, University of 
Michigan.


Detecting and Resolving errors in Manufacturing Systems

This symposium will bring together researchers working on 
troubleshooting, diagnosis, monitoring, and recovery from errors in 
manufacturing applications. The main purpose is to bring together 
people from manufacturing with people from AI to discuss how AI 
techniques and methodologies can be used to address the problems 
of detecting and resolving errors. The symposium will provide a 
forum for reviewing the state of the art and for proposing new 
avenues of exploration.

Any system designed to perform a manufacturing task must have 
ways of detecting and recovering from errors. Timely detection of 
anomalies in the behavior of the system is essential for its 
continuous safe operation. This involves preventing or minimizing 
the occurrence of faults through robust design, detecting abnormal 
conditions, isolating faults, and finding ways of maintaining safe 
operation despite the presence of faults. The manufacturing 
environment is often sufficiently uncertain and dynamic, and the 
manufacturing systems are sufficiently complex to make detection 
and recovery from errors a major task. The purpose of this 
symposium is to analyze these issues and propose how to create 
manufacturing systems able to achieve their tasks despite 
unpredicted contingencies.

Area of interest include (but are not limited to): reliability 
technology (reliability analysis, fault trees, event trees, etc); 
monitoring (model-based monitoring, fault-model based 
monitoring, detection of trends and prediction of anomalies, etc); 
error detection (sensor modeling, recognition of abnormal 
conditions, sensor interpretation, etc); error analysis (explanation of 
failures, causal modeling, troubleshooting techniques, etc); 
planning (sensor planning, repairing plans that fail, generation of 
recovery procedures, etc); scheduling (generating robust schedules, 
detecting and recovering from schedule execution errors, etc).

Papers addressing these and related issues in the area of 
manufacturing will be considered. Work in progress, innovative 
ideas, field based studies, experimental results in real 
manufacturing environments, and completed projects will be of 
interest. Both practical and theoretical work is welcome, but 
preference will be given to descriptions of implemented systems. 
The best papers will be consider for a special issue of a journal 
and/or a book on this subject.

Those interested in attending should submit an abstract or short 
position paper, three pages maximum. Please submit three copies 
(hardcopy submissions only!) to:
Maria Gini (chair)
4-192 EE/CSci Building
200 Union St SE
Minneapolis, MN 55455
(612) 625-5582 gini@cs.umn.edu

Organizing Committee: Robert D. Borchelt, University of 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Frank DiCesare, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute; Bruce Donald, Cornell University; Mark Drummond, 
NASA Ames Research Center; Maria Gini, (chair), University of 
Minnesota, gini@cs.umn.edu; Damian Lyons, Philips Laboratories.


Goal-Driven Learning

Goal-driven learning refers to the process of using the overall goals 
of an intelligent system to make decisions about when learning 
should occur, what should be learned, and which learning 
strategies are appropriate in a given context. This focusing process 
may take place at any decision point during learning--for example, 
when determining what to learn, selecting a bias, pruning the space 
of theories to be considered, or generating experiments for data 
gathering. Research in psychology, education, and AI has shown 
the need for intelligent systems to make decisions about what and 
how to learn. The common rationale, and the principle around 
which the symposium will be organized, is that the value of 
learning depends on how well it satisfies the goals of the system. 
The symposium will bring together researchers from diverse 
research areas to discuss issues in how learning goals arise, how 
they affect learner decisions of when and what to learn, and how 
they guide the learning process.

Topics addressed by the symposium will span the diverse work in 
this area, which includes research in formulating learning goals, 
experiment generation, utility of knowledge assessment, evaluating 
and selecting learning biases, explanation-based learning, learning 
from texts, active learning, case-based reasoning, formal analysis of 
decision making, automated question generation, knowledge 
acquisition planning, reinforcement learning, and control theory. 
We encourage researchers from fields other than these to submit 
papers on related research.

In addition to technical presentations, the symposium will include a 
session of invited talks on relevant topics, such as formal utility 
analysis of learning, automated experiment planning, psychological 
evidence for goal-driven learning behavior in humans, human 
educational motivation, and question generation. Depending on the 
number and quality of submitted papers, we may include a poster 
session as well. If there is sufficient overlap, we will arrange a joint 
session with the symposium on Decision-Theoretic Planning.

Time will be set aside for debate and discussion during the 
technical sessions, and the symposium will conclude with a panel 
and audience discussion of the issues raised during the 
symposium. Members of the concluding panel will be selected 
during the meeting, with the intention of creating a panel 
representative of the viewpoints expressed at the symposium.

In order to stimulate debate and discussion on future directions for 
research as well as evaluation of existing approaches to goal-driven 
learning, we encourage the submission of extended abstracts 
describing work in progress, position papers, and papers 
describing innovative unexplored approaches, as well as papers 
describing mature research results.

Shorter submissions (under five pages) are encouraged; however, 
longer submissions (up to ten pages) will be accepted. If you wish 
only to participate in the workshop, please submit two hardcopies 
of a research summary describing your relevant research interests. 
Questions may be directed to Ashwin Ram (ashwin@cc.gatech.edu) 
or to Marie desJardins (marie@erg.sri.com).

If you wish to present a paper, please submit four hardcopies of a 
paper or extended abstract to: 
Ashwin Ram
College of Computing
Georgia Institute of Technology
Atlanta, GA 30332-0280
(404) 853-9372

Organizing Committee: Marie desJardins (cochair), Lawrence 
Hunter, Foster John Provost, Ashwin Ram (cochair).


Intelligent Multi-Media Multi-Modal Systems

This symposium will deal with AI and HCI problems that arise in 
developing advanced forms of input and output for multi-media, 
multi-modal (M4) systems. It is intended to bring together 
researchers in computer vision; natural language processing; 
generation, input, and analysis of text, speech, and graphics; 
location-aware technology; knowledge representation; discourse 
planning; human activity modeling; and human-computer 
interaction. The goal is to discuss how the theories and practices of 
AI and HCI modeling can be combined to address the design of 
real interactive application systems. The symposium will consider 
the following issues:

-  Using novel input techniques, such as computer vision, to 
perform face recognition and gesture recognition, lip reading and 
eye tracking as forms of input to interactive programs, and 
location-aware technology to enable systems to track and find 
mobile users. Also of concern is how to integrate and interpret 
multiple inputs (e.g., text, speech, gesture, eye motion) in a 
common semantic representation.

-  Generating coordinated text, graphics (2D, 3D, and animation), 
audio (speech and non-speech) as part of an interactive M4 
dialogue.

-  Using semantic and pragmatic discourse models to structure M4 
input and output dialogues. Also of interest are the acquisition, 
representation, and maintenance of models of media, user, and 
dialogues.

-  Using agent-based models to specialize the integration of 
interactive M4 systems.

-  Facilitating direct interaction between KBSs and end users 
through M4 dialogues.

-  Developing methodologies for measuring the success of M4 
systems.

To encourage as much interaction as possible, more time will be 
allocated to discussing papers than to presenting them. Participants 
will receive papers for the symposium in advance, so they can read 
them prior to arrival, together with a list of points for discussion. 
Each session will be led by a discussant.

Submissions should be in the form of a position paper (up to six A4 
pages) or a full paper (up to ten A4 pages). The symposium 
organizers are particularly interested in papers that cut across the 
boundaries of AI and HCI. Working papers and reports on ongoing 
research are welcome. Submissions should address one or more of 
the six issues described above. All submissions should include the 
postal and electronic mail address of each person intending to 
participate. Five paper copies should be sent to either:
Peter Johnson (Symposium chair)
Department of Computer Science
Queen Mary and Westfield College
University of London
Mile End Road, London, E1 4NS UK
pete@dcs.qmw.ac.uk
+44 (0)71-975-5224  

or

Joe Marks, DEC CRL
One Kendall Sq., Bldg 700
Cambridge, MA 02139 USA
marks@crl.dec.com (617) 621-6667

Organizing Committee: Peter Johnson (chair), Univ. of London, 
pete@dcs.qmw. ac.uk; Steve Feiner, Columbia Univ.; Joe Marks, 
DEC CRL, marks@crl.dec.com; Mark Maybury, MITRE; Johanna 
Moore, University of Pittsburgh.


Software Agents

Software agents are sensor/effector systems that operate within 
real-world software environments such as operating systems, 
databases, or computer networks. Their sensors observe features of 
this external environment, and their effectors can both alter the 
state of the environment directly, and communicate with other 
agents. Software agents pursue goals such as acquiring information 
about the environment or modifying its state, either individually or 
in teams. In contrast to work on human-computer collaboration, 
our focus is on agents with a high degree of autonomy and 
flexibility.

Advances in computer, information, and telecommunications 
technology have made software agents both necessary and 
possible. However, the role of AI, and AI researchers, in these 
developments has yet to be determined. We believe that AI has the 
potential to contribute to these developments, on the one hand, and 
that software domains offer fascinating research challenges on the 
other. To capitalize on this opportunity we seek to bring together 
researchers in this new area, to develop a common vocabulary, and 
to identify the fundamental research issues that define it. 
Specifically, we would like to identify challenge problems for the 
community (e.g. email filtering); possibilities for software agent 
interaction (e.g. can Maes and Mitchell's meeting scheduling 
systems query Etzioni's UNIX softbot for information about 
potential meeting participants such as their phone numbers, 
current location, etc.); and possible connections to computer 
scientists outside AI (in databases, operating systems, office 
automation, etc.)

Research questions include:

-  How are software agents different from standard computer 
programs? 

-  What are appropriate software agent architectures? 

-  What are appropriate languages for inter-agent communication? 

-  Is explicit representation of capabilities and states of other agents 
necessary for the success of software agents? 

-  What are appropriate "social laws" for "societies" of agents? 

-  What are fundamental learning problems for software agents? 

-  How do the notions of "planning" and "execution" in software 
domains compare with the classical notions? 

-  What mechanisms are necessary to ensure long-term agent 
survival?

The symposium will consist of invited talks, individual 
presentations, and group discussion. If you wish to present your 
work, please submit four copies of an extended abstract (hardcopy 
only, 12 pt font, at most 1,500 words). To participate, please submit 
a one-page research statement and bibliography. All submissions 
should include an email address. We encourage graduate students 
actively working on a project in this subfield to participate. 
Submissions should be addressed to:
Oren Etzioni ( Spring Symposium '94)
Dept. of Computer Science & 
Engineering, FR - 35
U. of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195

Organizing Committee: Oren Etzioni,  (chair), Univ. of Washington; 
Pattie Maes, MIT; Tom Mitchell, Carnegie Mellon Univ.; Yoav 
Shoham, Stanford Univ.


Toward Physical Interaction and Manipulation

The range and scope of practical robotics applications depends 
critically on the ability of robots to physically interact with their 
environments. Current applications are highly specialized, and 
typically involve carefully controlled, well understood workspaces 
with little or no sensory feedback. Construction costs and 
inflexibility limit the economic viability of these systems. The 
general manipulation skills of humans and other animals contrasts 
starkly with the current capabilities of robots. From threading a 
needle, to opening a door, to catching a ball, to moving a sofa, we 
engage our environments in myriad ways. Unlike most current 
robots, we rely upon rich sources of sensory feedback to cope with 
uncertainties in our varied world.

The purpose of this workshop is to draw together researchers from 
a range of disciplines to study the principles of physical interaction 
and manipulation. The goal is to consider theories, paradigms, and 
ontologies for both natural and artificial systems, and to develop 
generally useful concepts, architectures, and algorithms for 
building and describing them.

The approach is to select in advance a set of tasks that range in 
difficulty and span a number of research issues. Each prospective 
participant is to develop conceptual designs for one or more of 
these tasks prior to the workshop. It is acceptable for designs to be 
speculative, as we encourage creative solutions. However, the aim 
is to examine tasks in detail and sketch complete systems. At the 
workshop, selected designs will be presented, discussed, and 
compared in an attempt to reach a more general understanding. By 
analyzing a range of tasks, we aim to broaden our perspective, 
identifying common themes and useful design principles. The 
rationale for this format is that participants will be well prepared 
for the discussions by thinking in detail about some of these tasks 
in advance. The list of candidate tasks include: make a cup of 
coffee; fry and serve an egg; prepare buttered toast; play catch; 
insert and play a video tape; vacuum/mop the floor or mow the 
lawn; dig a hole/trench; (un)lock a door with a key; open, pass 
through, and close a door; feed someone using a fork, knife, spoon, 
cup, etc.; retrieve a screwdriver from the toolbox in the garage.; fold 
clothes; move large objects (boxes, chairs, furniture).

These activities involve a range of skills and will most likely require 
a range of mechanisms. They can be characterized by their 
requirements for real-time dynamics; ballistic vs. servo control; 
timed control; position/orientation/velocity/force control; tool 
usage & action at a distance; multiple temporal phases; sensor 
modalities (e.g., visual, haptic); compliance; constraints on the 
workspace/environment.

Participants should attempt to characterize their tasks and designs 
according to these (and other) features to facilitate comparison.

Potential participants should submit a short description of their 
background and research interests along with designs and analysis 
for individual tasks. To improve the depth and quality of the 
designs, participants are encouraged to work in teams, especially in 
collaborations that combine complementary expertise. Of course, 
demonstrations of working systems, including simulations and 
videos, are encouraged. Send submissions to either:
Steven Whitehead
GTE Laboratories Incorporated
40 Sylvan Rd.
Waltham, MA 02254
phone: (617) 466-2193
FAX: (617) 890-9320
swhitehead@gte.com
or
David Coombs
Natl Inst of Stds and Tech (NIST)
Robot Systems Division
Building 220, Room B-124
Gaithersburg, MD 20899 USA
phone: (301) 975-2865
FAX: (301) 990-9688
coombs@cme.nist.gov

Organizing Committee: Emilio Bizzi, MIT; Jon Connell, IBM 
Watson; David Coombs, (cochair), NIST, coombs@cme.nist.gov; 
Ken Goldberg, USC; Rod Grupen, University of Massachusetts; 
Stan Rosenschein, Teleos Research; Steven Whitehead, GTE Labs, 
(cochair), (swhitehead@gte.com)


COMING ATTRACTIONS

The AAAI FALL SYMPOSIUM SERIES for 1994 will be held in late 
October of 1994 at a location on the East Coast of the United States. 
The symposia to be offered will include:

-  Knowledge Representation For Natural Language Processing In 
Implemented Systems
Chair: S. Syali, SUNY Buffalo, syali@cs.buffalo.edu

-  Improving Instruction of Introductory AI
Chair: M. Hearst, UC Berkeley, marti@auspex.berkeley.edu

-  Intelligent Control
Chairs: B. Kuipers, Univ. Texas, kuipers@cs.utexas.edu; L. Ungar, 
Univ. Pennsylvania, ungar@central.cis.upenn.edu

-  Planning and Learning: On to Real Applications
Chairs: Y. Gil, ISI, gil@isi.edu; M. Veloso, CMU, veloso@cs.cmu.edu

-  Relevance
Chair: R. Greiner, Siemens, greiner@learning.siemens.com

For more information, contact the chair of the 1994 Symposium 
Series: 
Lynn Andrea Stein, las@ai.mit.edu.



