From ashwin.ram@cc.gatech.edu Mon Oct  4 21:14:45 EDT 1993
Article: 19063 of comp.ai
Xref: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:19063 sci.cognitive:2200
Newsgroups: comp.ai,sci.cognitive
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!cc.gatech.edu!cc.gatech.edu!ashwin
From: ashwin@gatech.edu (Ashwin Ram)
Subject: CFP: AAAI-94 Spring Symposium on Goal-Driven Learning
Message-ID: <ASHWIN.93Oct4152718@leo.gatech.edu>
Sender: news@cc.gatech.edu
Reply-To: ashwin.ram@cc.gatech.edu (Ashwin Ram)
Organization: Georgia Institute of Technology, College of Computing
Date: Mon, 4 Oct 1993 20:27:18 GMT
Lines: 84

                        AAAI-94 SPRING SYMPOSIUM ON
                           GOAL-DRIVEN LEARNING
                           Stanford University
                            March 21-23, 1994

                          CALL FOR PARTICIPATION

Program Committee:
    Marie desJardins (co-chair)         Lawrence Hunter
    Foster John Provost                 Ashwin Ram (co-chair)

Goal-driven learning refers to the process of using the overall goals
of an intelligent system to make decisions about when learning should
occur, what should be learned, and which learning strategies are
appropriate in a given context.  This focusing process may take place
at any decision point during learning---for example, when determining
what to learn, selecting a bias, pruning the space of theories to be
considered, or generating experiments for data gathering.  Research in
psychology, education, and AI has shown the need for intelligent
systems to make decisions about what and how to learn.  The common
rationale, and the principle around which the symposium will be
organized, is that the value of learning depends on how well it
satisfies the goals of the system.  The symposium will bring together
researchers from diverse research areas to discuss issues in how
learning goals arise, how they affect learner decisions of when and
what to learn, and how they guide the learning process.

Topics addressed by the symposium will span the diverse work in this
area, which includes research in formulating learning goals,
experiment generation, utility of knowledge assessment, evaluating and
selecting learning biases, explanation-based learning, learning from
texts, active learning, case-based reasoning, formal analyses of
decision making, automated question generation, knowledge acquisition
planning, reinforcement learning, and control theory.  We encourage
researchers from fields other than these to submit papers on related
research.

In addition to technical presentations, the symposium will include a
session of invited talks on relevant topics, such as formal utility
analyses of learning, automated experiment planning, psychological
evidence for goal-driven learning behavior in humans, human
educational motivation, and question generation.  Depending on the
number and quality of submitted papers, we may include a poster
session as well.  If there is sufficient overlap, we will arrange a
joint session with the symposium on Decision-Theoretic Planning.

Time will be set aside for debate and discussion during the technical
sessions, and the symposium will conclude with a panel and audience
discussion of the issues raised during the symposium.  Members of the
concluding panel will be selected during the meeting, with the
intention of creating a panel representative of the viewpoints
expressed at the symposium.

In order to stimulate debate and discussion on future directions for
research as well as evaluation of existing approaches to goal-driven
learning, we encourage the submission of extended abstracts describing
work in progress, position papers, and papers describing innovative
unexplored approaches, as well as papers describing mature research
results.

If you wish to present a paper, please submit four hardcopies of a
paper or extended abstract by October 15 to:
    Prof. Ashwin Ram
    College of Computing
    Georgia Institute of Technology
    Atlanta, GA 30332-0280
    (404) 853-9372
Shorter submissions (under five pages) are encouraged; however, longer
submissions (up to ten pages) will be accepted.

If you wish only to participate in the workshop, please submit two
hardcopies of a research summary describing your relevant research
interests.

Questions may directed to Ashwin Ram (ashwin@cc.gatech.edu) or to
Marie desJardins (marie@erg.sri.com).

SCHEDULE:
    October 15, 1993            Papers due
    November 15, 1993           Acceptance/rejection notices mailed
    January 31, 1994            Camera-ready papers due
    February 15, 1994           Registration deadline for invitees
    March 1, 1994               Final registration deadline
    March 21-23                 Symposium at Stanford Univ.


