From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky Wed Aug  4 12:21:37 EDT 1993
Article: 18175 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18175
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky
From: skalsky@public.btr.com (Rick Skalsky UUCPR ed aaai.org skalsky@btr.com)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: AAAI-94 Call for Tutorial Proposals
Date: 3 Aug 1993 14:54:32 GMT
Organization: OpenLink, Inc
Lines: 92
Message-ID: <23lu78$8n3@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: aaai-94 tutorials


Twelfth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
(AAAI-94)
Seattle, Washington
July, 31-August 4, 1994

Call for Tutorial Proposals


The AAAI-94 Program Committee invites proposals for the Tutorial 
Program of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence 
Twelfth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-94). 
The theme of the 1994 Tutorial Program is "Real World 
Applications of Theoretically Well-Founded AI Concepts and 
Methods." Tutorials will be held July 31-August 1, 1994 in Seattle, 
Washington. Anyone who is interested in presenting a tutorial at 
AAAI-94 should submit a proposal to the 1994 Tutorial Cochair, 
Devika Subramanian. She and tutorial cochair Phil Klahr (Inference 
Corporation), will review all proposals.

Topics
Previous tutorial topics have included: AI in business, finance, and 
accounting, AI in customer service and support, including help 
desks, AI in tutoring and education, AI techniques in human 
computer interface design, applications of fuzzy logic, behavior-
based robotics/mobile robots, building integrated knowledge-
based systems in the real world, case-based reasoning, 
computational challenges from molecular biology, constraint-based 
reasoning, distributed artificial intelligence tools, genetic 
algorithms and genetics-based engineering, intelligent technologies 
in transportation, knowledge acquisition techniques, knowledge-
based scheduling, knowledge sharing and reuse, model-based 
diagnosis, machine learning, managing uncertainty, multistrategy 
learning, neural nets for real world problems, qualitative reasoning 
for design & diagnosis applications, symbolic and neural network 
approaches to machine learning, verification and validation

AAAI is interested in proposals covering new or existing topics 
from either beginning or more advanced areas. We especially 
encourage proposals on topics that apply artificial intelligence 
methods and techniques to problems in other scientific and 
engineering disciplines, such as molecular biology, material 
science, experimental physics, operations research, mechanical 
engineering, and  so forth.

Submission Requirements
We need two kinds of information in proposals: information that 
will be used for selecting proposals and information that will 
appear in the tutorial description brochure. Each proposal should 
contain the following:

Goal of the tutorial: Detailed outline, possibly augmented with 
sample materials.

Tutorial description: a short paragraph summarizing the tutorial 
outline.

Prerequisite knowledge: what knowledge is assumed.

Please also submit the following information about the presenters: 
name, mailing address, phone number, email address; background 
in the tutorial area, including a list of publications and/or 
presentations; any available examples of work in the area (ideally, a 
published tutorial-level article or presentation materials on the 
subject); evidence of teaching experience (courses taught or 
references); and evidence of scholarship in AI or computer science.

Each tutorial should be offered by a team of presenters. Those 
submitting a proposal should keep in mind that tutorials are 
intended to provide an overview of a field or practical training in 
an area; they should present reasonably well agreed upon 
information in a balanced way. Tutorials should not be used to 
advocate a single avenue of research, nor should they promote a 
product.

Submission Deadline

Proposals must be received by November 1, 1993.

Decisions about the tutorial program will be made by November 
15, 1993. Speakers should be prepared to submit completed course 
materials by March 31, 1994.

Proposals should be sent to:

Professor Devika Subramanian
5133 Upson Hall, Department of Computer Science
Cornell University
Ithaca, NY 14853
Telephone (607) 255-9189;  Fax (607) 255-4428 
Email: devika@cs.cornell.edu



