From thomas@noosa.gmd.de Mon Jan 24 14:51:19 EST 1994
Article: 20337 of comp.ai
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:20337
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!gmd.de!slim!thomas
From: thomas@noosa.gmd.de (Tom Gordon)
Subject: AAAI-94 Workshop on Computational Dialectics (REPOST)
Message-ID: <THOMAS.94Jan21090559@noosa.gmd.de>
Sender: news@gmd.de (USENET News)
Nntp-Posting-Host: noosa
Organization: German National Research Center for Computer Science (GMD)
Date: Fri, 21 Jan 1994 08:05:58 GMT
Lines: 118


(Note: This is being reposted to correct my email address and improve
the formatting. Tom Gordon)


AAAI Workshop 1994

Call For Participation


COMPUTATIONAL DIALECTICS

Dialectic is an idea that simply will not disappear.  It is the idea of
structured linguistic interactions proceeding according to a largely
adversarial protocol.  Beginning with the ancients, dialectic appears to many
to be synonymous with rationality.  Today, computation informs the study and
use of such structured dialogues.  Substantial contributions are now possible
from artificial intelligence researchers.

The term "Computational Dialectics" is meant to describe an area of
activity in AI, which considers the language and protocol of systems
that mediate the flow of messages between agents constructing
judgement, agreement, or other social choice, to recognize or achieve
an outcome in a fair and effective way.

The study of communal standards for acquiring knowledge and making
decisions has always been interesting as a basis for computational
models of deliberation.  The study of argument and negotiation in
naturally occurring dialogues has been the focus of work in language
processing and explanation generation.  The study of analogy and
case-based reasoning has produced dialectical models that have been
successfully applied in the domain of conflict resolution, negotiation
and legal argument.  The implementation of non-monotonic reasoning
systems and the semantics of logic programming has also converged on
dialectic.  Philosophers' formalization of defeasible reasoning has
produced new understanding of why dialectic is not merely roundabout
proof.  Researchers of HCI and CSCW have had occasion to study how the
interplay of argument, counterargument, and rebuttal affects design,
clarifies presentation, and improves interaction.  The rediscovery of
pro and con recalls AI's early foundations upon max and min.

Goals

The primary goal of this workshop is to identify areas where computationally
motivated language games can contribute new scholarship or interesting
software technology.

Historical and rhetorical aspects of dialectic will be considered only to the
extent that they advance the models of computer scientists.  We are interested
more in what computer scientists will have to say to the dialecticians than
vice versa.

Format

Efforts will be made to involve established leaders in related fields, and to
make the best use of the contributions.  The format will include both
presentations and open discussions, and of course, debate.  Duration will
depend on the field of submissions.  Plans for future publications are being
developed.

Submissions

	Two kinds of submissions can be made for participation. 
	
	+  An extended abstract of a paper can be submitted for possible
		presentation;
	
	+  A brief statement of interest and background can be sent
		for consideration as a participant.

Preference will be made to those who can propose computational frameworks for
modeling argument and negotiation or otherwise shed light on the complexities
of dialectical inquiry.

Please include a telephone number and an email address.  Submissions can be
made to any of the committee members and may be electronic.  The preferred
European address is Thomas Gordon, GMD, Postfach 1316, 53757 Sankt Augustin, 
GERMANY.  The preferred US address is R. P. Loui, Box 1045, Washington
University, St. Louis, MO  63130.  The email addresses are
jmoore@cs.pitt.edu, sycara@cs.cmu.edu, thomas.gordon@gmd.de, loui@ai.wustl.edu.


Topics Suggested

+ Standards of correctness, effectiveness, and fairness of protocols.

+ Formal language games for particular kinds of tasks, such as
	cooperation, negotiation, argumentation, and conflict resolution.

+ Toolkits for implementing systems that embody dialectical ideas.

+ Work on logics of dialogue, defeasible reasoning, logic programming,
	uncertain reasoning, case-based reasoning, legal reasoning, planning,
	search, or social choice that is aimed at modeling dialectical
	processes.

+ Applications of formal language games of this kind, in fields such
	as cooperative design, distributed AI, telecommunications, law, and
	business.


Submission Deadline:  March 18, 1994

Organizing Committee

Thomas Gordon (co-chair), GMD, Bonn.  
R. P. Loui (co-chair), Washington University, St. Louis
Johanna Moore, University of Pittsburgh
Katia Sycara, Carnegie-Mellon University




--
Dr. Thomas F. Gordon
GMD, FIT-KI; Schloss Birlinghoven
53757 Sankt Augustin / Germany
email: thomas.gordon@gmd.de;  phone: (+49 2241) 14-2665


