From skalsky@public.btr.com Thu Jan  6 18:33:23 EST 1994
Article: 20116 of comp.ai
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:20116
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky
From: skalsky@public.btr.com (Rick Skalsky UUCPR ed aaai.org skalsky@btr.com)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: AAAI 1994 Fall Symposium Series Call for Participation
Date: 5 Jan 1994 22:27:21 GMT
Organization: OpenLink, Inc
Lines: 583
Message-ID: <2gfes9$7b8@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: AAAI AI Fall Symposia  Call for Participation 1994


AAAI 1994 Fall Symposium Series
November 4-6, 1994
The Monteleone Hotel, New Orleans, Louisiana

Call for Participation

Sponsored by the
American Association for Artificial Intelligence
445 Burgess Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025
(415) 328-3123
fss@aaai.org

The American Association for Artificial Intelligence presents the 1994 Fall 
Symposium Series, to be held Friday through Sunday, November 4-6 at 
the Monteleone Hotel, New Orleans, Louisiana. The topics of the five 
symposia in the 1994 Fall Symposium Series are:

-  Control of the Physical World by Intelligent Agents

-  Knowledge Representation for Natural Language Processing in 
   Implemented Systems

-  Improving Instruction of Introductory AI

-  Planning and Learning: On to Real Applications

-  Relevance

Symposia will be limited to between forty and sixty participants. Each 
participant will be expected to attend a single symposium. Working notes 
will be prepared and distributed to participants in each symposium.

A general plenary session, in which the highlights of each symposium will 
be presented, will be held on November 5, and an informal reception will be 
held on November 4.

In addition to invited participants, a limited number of other interested 
parties will be able to register in each symposium on a first-come, first-
served basis. Registration will be available by mid-July 1994. To obtain 
registration information write to the AAAI at 445 Burgess Drive, Menlo 
Park, CA 94025 (fss@aaai.org).

Submission Dates
-  Submissions for the symposia are due on April 15, 1994.
-  Notification of acceptance will be given by May 17, 1994.
-  Material to be included in the working notes of the symposium must be 
   received by August 19, 1994. 

See the appropriate section below for specific submission requirements for 
each symposium.



Control of the Physical World by
Intelligent Systems

An intelligent agent, interacting with the physical world, must cope with a 
wide range of demands. Different scientific and engineering disciplines, 
with different abstractions of the world, have found different "pieces of the 
puzzle" for the problem of how the agent can successfully control its world. 
These disciplines include:
-  AI (including qualitative reasoning, planning, machine learning, and 
   intelligently guided numerical simulation)
-  control theory 
-  dynamical systems
-  fault diagnosis
-  fuzzy logic and systems
-  neural nets
-  computer vision
-  robotics

The goal of this symposium is to attempt to understand the puzzle as a 
whole, by bringing together researchers with experience assembling two or 
more pieces. The emphasis will be on successful projects in this area that 
exploit results or methods from several disciplines.

Abstractly, the important questions will be:
-  What are the strengths and weaknesses of each piece of the puzzle?
-  How do we put together two pieces to exploit their strengths and avoid 
   their weaknesses?
-  How do we reconcile the different conceptual frameworks to make 
   different approaches mutually comprehensible?

In order to make our discussions mutually comprehensible, participants 
should relate their work to one of a small number of everyday tasks: 
vacuuming the floors in an ordinary house, coping with furniture, pets, 
trash, etc.; controlling a process such as a pressure-cooker, including set-
up, start-up, normal operation, anticipating and handling emergencies, shut-
down, and clean-up; automated driving of a car through city and/or highway 
traffic, including learning spatial structure and using maps; or learning to 
understand and control one's own sensory-motor system, including seeing, 
grabbing, walking, running, bicycling, juggling, etc.

The symposium will be organized around a few presentations and lots of 
discussion. In some sessions, a successful project will be presented and 
critiqued. In others, a problem will be posed, and relevant contributions 
collected and evaluated. 

The working papers will be distributed in advance, so participants can 
familiarize themselves with each others' positions before the symposium. 
We expect conversations of the form: "What problem are you working on?" 
"Why is that important?" "How can I help you?" and "How can you help 
me?"

Attendance at the symposium will be limited. Some attention will be given 
to balance among areas, but the primary criteria will be successful synthesis 
of multiple approaches to intelligent agenthood, and ability of the participant 
to communicate across discipline boundaries.

Papers should focus on one of the above everyday tasks (or a task of similar 
familiarity and concreteness). It would be helpful to include a glossary of 
key concepts to help bring the reader into your conceptual framework.
 
Submission Information
Five copies of either full papers (twenty pages max) or short position papers 
(five pages max) should be sent to:

  Benjamin Kuipers
  Cochair, AAAI Intelligent Agent Symposium 
  Computer Sciences Department
  University of Texas at Austin
  Austin, Texas 78712 USA

Organizing Committee
Piero Bonnisone, General Electric; Jim Hendler, University of Maryland; 
Michael Jordan, MIT; Benjamin Kuipers (cochair), University of Texas; 
Lyle Ungar (cochair), University of Pennsylvania.



Knowledge Representation for Natural Language Processing in 
Implemented Systems


This symposium is intended to be a meeting of researchers actively working 
on implemented knowledge representation and reasoning (KRR) systems 
for general natural language processing (NLP) in order to assess the current 
state of that field. Specific topics of interest include the following:

Expressiveness and generality of the representation language with respect to 
natural language. For example, coverage of complex object descriptions and 
treatment of quantification. What are the trade-offs in increasing the 
expressiveness of the representation language to support natural language? 

Inference methods that parallel reasoning in natural language. Natural 
deduction systems, for example, are so called because of the apparent 
naturalness of the proof procedure. Another example is surface reasoning, 
based on the syntactic structure of the natural language.

Ability of the formalism or system to capture important semantic and 
pragmatic aspects of natural language. For example, the computational 
relationship between the representation language and the parser/generator.
Is it possible to define the representation language to facilitate this 
relationship? At what cost?

How many or kinds of representation languages are needed for general 
NLP? Many NLP systems actually use two representation languages: a 
semantic representation language that captures the semantics of a sentence, 
and a knowledge representation language that is used to do reasoning and 
represent the system's general knowledge about the domain. Typically these 
languages are quite different, with the former being a much more powerful 
language (including modalities, lambda expressions and other higher order 
constructs, generalized quantifiers, etc) and the latter being what the 
system's reasoning engine actually operates on, usually something more or 
less equivalent to first-order logic, (or an even more restricted vivid 
representation like a relational database) This raises the question of how 
these languages relate to each other, and if it is possible (or desirable) to 
have a semantic representation language that supports inference.

Stands on issues such as: 
-  What problems are solved, and how to use the solution(s).
-  What areas need work.
-  Defense or attacks of the standard design of morphology-syntax-
   semantics-pragmatics.

Submissions to the symposium should address these topics by showing 
some text that an actual implemented system can understand, how the 
information contained in that text is represented, what background 
information is used by the system, how that information is represented, 
how the system processes the knowledge to do interesting things (such as 
answering interesting questions about the text), and how the information is 
processed into answers. Reports on projects whose purpose is to simulate 
human understanding of texts will be preferred over projects whose purpose 
is to provide natural language interfaces to databases, planners, or to 
pragmatically oriented knowledge bases.

The format of this symposium will be designed to encourage interaction 
amongst the participants. To this end, new, previously unpublished work-
in-progress on the topics of the symposium is most desirable, as are stands 
on the issues outlined above.

Submission Information
Potential attendees should submit an extended abstract of no more than 10 
pages (exclusive of references), twelve point, double-spaced, with one inch 
margins. Submissions not conforming to these guidelines will not be 
reviewed. 

The symposium format will also include one or more panel discussions on 
the issues listed above. Attendees wishing to participate in panels, or 
wishing to suggest other panel topics, should indicate their interest and 
include a current vita along with their extended abstract.

Demonstrations of working NLP/KRR systems are also of interest, 
however attendees must provide their own hardware and software support. 
Attendees interested in this option should indicate what they are planning on 
demonstrating, and how they propose to do so. This information should be 
provided with their extended abstract in a cover letter that clearly
states their interest in this option.

Email submission is preferred, and should be directed to the Symposium 
Chair at

 ssa231f@csm560.smsu.edu and
 syali@cs.buffalo.edu

Preferred email submission formats are: stand-alone LaTeX, PostScript, or 
plain text (for abstracts without complex figures, etc). 

If email submission is not possible, then five copies of the paper should be 
mailed to the Symposium Chair: 

Syed S. Ali
Chair, AAAI Fall Symposium on Knowledge Representation 
  for Natural Language Processing in Implemented Systems
Department of Computer Science
Southwest Missouri State University
901 South National Avenue
Springfield, MO 65804
(417) 836-5773

Organizing Committee
Syed S. Ali (chair), Southwest Missouri State University, 
ssa231f@csm560. smsu.edu or syali@cs.buffalo.edu; Douglas Appelt, 
SRI International; Lucja Iwanska, Wayne State University; Lenhart 
Schubert, University of Rochester; Stuart C. Shapiro, State University of 
New York at Buffalo.



Improving Instruction of Introductory
Artificial Intelligence

Introductory artificial intelligence is a notoriously difficult course to teach 
well. The two most straightforward strategies are to either present a 
smorgasbord of topics or to focus on one or two central approaches. The 
first option often yields disjointed and superficial results, whereas the 
second presents an incorrectly biased picture. Often students come away 
with a feeling that the subject matter is not coherent and that the field has 
few significant achievements. 

Other issues instructors must face are: What should the balance be between 
the emphasis on cognitive modeling vs. engineering solutions to hard 
problems? How should one handle the well-known phenomenon of 
solutions that work no longer being considered to be part of AI?

What strategies do instructors take to deal with these issues? What are some 
underlying themes that can be used to help structure the material? Are there 
sets of principles that can be used to instruct the material, even if they
do not precisely reflect all of the current viewpoints? 

We propose that the AI community meet and tackle these issues together. 
The goal of the symposium is to provide an opportunity to discuss these 
difficult questions, as well as to share successful strategies, problem 
assignments, instructional programs, and instructional "bloopers."

The symposium will be organized as a workshop, although there will be 
tutorial aspects, allowing participants to learn from the experiences of 
colleagues who have worked out successful solutions. All attendees will 
participate in less formal breakout sessions as well as in discussion 
following presentations.

We are soliciting four kinds of contributions, corresponding to four 
presentation types. 

Type I
A discussion of a successful strategy for instructing introductory AI, based 
on experience. The descriptions should be centered around a syllabus and 
must describe how the strategy handles the smorgasbord versus bias 
problem, i.e., what underlying unifying themes give cohesiveness to the 
approach while at the same time covering the material well. Accepted 
descriptions (one to three pages plus the syllabus) will appear in the 
working notes, and the authors of some of these will be asked to present 
these ideas in the form of a talk.

Those submitting papers on successful overall approaches should also 
address the following issues, and optionally those listed under Type II as 
well.

1) What are the basics that must be covered, and how are they integrated 
into the theme of the course?

2) One strategy is to describe a problem to be solved and then discuss 
several different techniques that attempt to solve the problem. The inverse 
strategy describes a technique and then explores how well it performs on 
different problem types. Which, if either, strategy is used?

3) What kind of curriculum does this fit in to? (E.g., isolated undergraduate 
semester, part of an intelligent systems series, overview for graduate 
students, etc.)

Type II
A position paper addressing at least one of the following issues (one to four 
pages). Selected position papers will appear in the working notes and some 
authors will be asked to participate in well-structured, strongly moderated 
panel discussions (i.e., answers to a small set of questions prepared in 
advance).

Content issues include:

1) What is the role of cognitive motivation, if any? Should there be an 
   emphasis on simulating intelligence, modeling the mind, etc.?

2) What is the role of formalism?

3) Should commercially feasible aspects be addressed, and if so, how? 

4) How should we address the question, is it still AI if it can be done?

5) What role should advanced areas (e.g., vision, robotics) play?

6) What kind of hooks should be left for more in-depth courses (e.g., 
   graduate ML, NLP, vision, KR, connectionism, etc.)?

7) What is the role of historical developments? Should this be a structuring 
   theme?

Curricular issues include:

1) What kind of department; interaction with other subareas, e.g.: cognitive 
systems, intelligent systems.

2) What kind of educational program: One semester or quarter overview? A 
two or three semester series centered around a theme (e.g., KR)?

3) Undergraduate versus graduate: How much should they overlap? 
Remedial introduction for those who never took undergraduate AI? What 
are the positive and negative results? Undergrad pedagogical, hands on 
experience? Graduate reading: primary sources?

Teaching college perspective issues include:
1) What are the special issues?

2) How can pooled resources help?

Laboratory involvement issues include:

1) Is programming useful or a time waster? Is it better to use and observe 
existing tools instead? Or is a compromise--modifying existing programs--
best?

Innovative ideas?

Type III
Informative descriptions of programming tools for assignments and as 
instructional aids. Many potential symposium participants have expressed 
interest in acquiring a collection of useful programs both for demonstration 
of AI concepts and for use in homework assignments in lieu of requiring 
students to spend their time programming. This is an opportunity to 
advertise tools, videotapes, and other teaching aids. We would like all 
participants that have used tools that they have found to be useful to list 
these tools, and all developers of new tools to describe them. For those who 
have created new tools, we would like to create a repository of same.

Type III submissions should address at least one of the following (one to 
five pages):

1) Descriptions of new educational tools specifically designed for 
instruction of AI (e.g., The FLAIR project of Papalaskari et al.).

2) Recommendations and pans of existing tools as instructional aids.

3) Proposals for tools or tool construction methodologies that don't exist 
   but should.

4) Tools for empirical exploration (e.g., a tutorial guide to the tools in the 
   machine learning repository, as applied for instructional purposes).

Type IV
Contributory questions (one to two pages). Those wishing to participate but 
who do not wish to contribute in one of the previous categories must 
indicate their interest by describing what issues they are interested in 
(including those listed above) and suggesting questions to be addressed by 
the symposium. Descriptions of bloopers--mistakes made that others 
should be warned away from, are also appropriate. We are especially 
interested in topics to be discussed by small groups, and questions to be 
asked of the panelists.

Submission Information:
Authors may send contributions of more than one type, if desired. Only one 
document should be submitted. A submitter who wants to make more than 
one type of submission should simply label each part of the document with 
the appropriate type (Type I, Type II, etc).

Email submissions are strongly preferred. Send one copy, plain text, to: 
marti@cs.berkeley.edu. PostScript is acceptable if it is accompanied by a 
plain text version as well; this way diagrams can be included in an electronic 
form. Those people who cannot send an electronic version should send 
three hard copies to:

Marti Hearst
Chair, Symposium on Improving Instruction of Introductory AI 
Xerox PARC
3333 Coyote Hill Rd
Palo Alto, CA 94304

Organizing Committee
Marti Hearst (chair), UC Berkeley; Haym Hirsh, Rutgers; Dan 
Huttenlocher, Cornel; Nils Nilsson, Stanford; Bonnie Webber, University 
of Pennsylvania; Patrick Winston, MIT.



Planning and Learning: On to Real Applications

Planning and learning research have been progressing in parallel over the 
past several years, but very few research projects have bridged the two 
areas. However, there is a great deal of benefit from their interaction, 
especially when they are concerned with real applications. As the 
complexity of planning problems increases, it becomes of particular interest 
to identify learning opportunities in order to automate the acquisition of a 
planner's knowledge in new applications. At the same time, planning 
problems are a useful testbed and a source of challenges for learning 
research. The goal of this symposium is to discuss the implications of 
practical planning applications on both learning and planning research.

The symposium will highlight empirical work on practical problems as an 
invaluable source for understanding the complexity of the planning task. We 
expect the analysis and discussion of practical domains to be a solid basis 
for turning formal planning and learning algorithms into efficient practical 
ones. As a desirable side effect of the symposium, we also envision the 
emergence of an initial comparative insight into different planning and 
learning algorithms from a practical standpoint. In particular we would like 
to discuss characterizations of application domains, comparisons of 
performance of different planners on the same task, and practical limitations 
or power of an approach.

Specific topics of interest for the symposium include:

Practical problems: What makes practical real problems different from 
simplified simulated tasks? What are the implications of practical problems 
for specific planning algorithms? What are the learning opportunities for 
specific planning algorithms to handle practical problems efficiently?

Learning and knowledge acquisition: What learning algorithms were 
developed or extended to address needs of the application? What tools help 
extend and maintain planning knowledge?

Learning, planning efficiency, and plan quality: What are learning 
opportunities for a planning algorithm? How can a planner improve its 
efficiency based on its past experience? What are measures of plan quality in 
real applications? How can a planner improve the quality of the solutions it 
generates?

Scaling up: How well does the approach behave in tasks and problems of 
increasing size and complexity? What issues need to be addressed and what 
extensions to the framework are demanded by particular applications?

Domain features: What features of a practical domain stretch the 
representation language of a planner? What dimensions can be used to 
characterize and compare application domains? How can search spaces be 
characterized in terms of the application?

We encourage submissions and participation of theoretical planning 
researchers interested in understanding more practical planning problems 
and the impact of learning in their algorithms, as well as contributions on 
practical planning applications that shed light on the challenging issues for 
learning, knowledge acquisition, and representation in planning domains. 
We especially welcome position papers that present discussions of issues 
relevant to the symposium as well as those written by teams with 
complementary research interests.

The symposium will consist of presentations, invited talks, and discussion 
sessions. In order to encourage participation in the discussions, the 
organizing committee will put together a list of issues of concern from the 
submissions, and distribute it to the participants in advance.

Submission Information
To participate, please submit an extended abstract (up to five pages). 
Authors of accepted abstracts will be invited (but not required) to submit a 
longer paper for publication in the working notes. Those interested in 
attending should submit a one- to two-page research statement and a list of 
relevant publications. Please include your email address in all submissions. 
Submit four hard copies to:

Yolanda Gil 
Cochair, AAAI Fall Symposium on Planning and Learning
Information Sciences Institute
University of Southern California
4676 Admiralty Way
Marina del Rey, CA 90292
(310) 822-1511
(310) 823-6714 (fax)
gil@isi.edu

Organizing Committee
Steve Chien, Jet Propulsion Laboratory; Yolanda Gil (cochair), 
USC/Information Sciences Institute, gil@isi.edu; Drew McDermott, Yale 
University; Dana Nau, University of Maryland; Manuela Veloso (cochair), 
Carnegie Mellon University, veloso@cs.cmu.edu.



Relevance

Essentially all reasoning and learning systems require a corpus of 
information to reach appropriate conclusions. For example, deductive and 
abductive systems use an initial theory (possibly encoded as predicate 
calculus statements, a Bayesian network or a neural net) and perhaps a to-
be-explained observation, and inductive systems typically use both a 
background theory and a set of labeled samples. With too little information, 
of course, these systems cannot work effectively. Surprisingly, too much 
information can also cause the performance of these systems to degrade, in 
terms of both accuracy and efficiency. It is therefore important to determine 
what information must be preserved, or more generally, to determine how 
best to cope with superfluous information. The goal of this symposium is a 
better understanding of this topic, relevance, with a focus on techniques for 
improving a system's performance (along some dimension) by ignoring or 
de-emphasizing irrelevant and superfluous information. These techniques 
will clearly be of increasing importance as knowledge bases become more 
comprehensive and real-world applications are scaled up.

There are many forms of irrelevancy. In many contexts (including both 
deduction and induction), the initial theory may include more information 
than the task requires. Here, the system may perform more effectively if 
certain irrelevant facts (or nodes in a neural net or Bayesian network) are 
ignored or deleted. This realization is clearly related to the notions of 
abstraction, approximation, qualitative physics, and to the processes 
underlying many analogical, Explanation-Based Learning, and Case-Based 
Reasoning systems. In addition, it is often effective to disregard certain 
links or even nodes in a Bayesian network, after determining that they will 
have a negligible effect on the distribution of values of a particular
variable; similarly one can delete a unit from a neural net if the strengths 
of its output links are near 0.

In the context of learning, certain attributes of each individual sample may 
be irrelevant in that they will play essentially no role in the eventual 
classification or clustering. Also, the learner may choose to view certain  
samples to be irrelevant, knowing that they contain essentially no new 
information. This is clearly related to the recent weak learning conversions 
that provide ways of filtering out some examples and to overfitting.

Yet another flavor of irrelevance arises during the course of a general 
computation: A computing process can ignore certain intermediate results, 
once it has established that they will not contribute to the eventual answer; 
consider alpha-beta pruning or conspiracy numbers in game-playing and 
other contexts, or control heuristics in derivation.

Submission Information
Potential attendees should submit a one-page summary of their relevant 
research, together with a set of their relevant papers (pun unavoidable). 
People wishing to present material should also submit a 2000 word abstract. 
We invite papers that deal with any aspect of this topic, including 
characterizations of irrelevancies, ways of coping with superfluous 
information, ways of detecting irrelevancies and focusing on relevant 
information, and so forth; and are particularly interested in studies that 
suggest ways to improve the efficiency or accuracy of reasoning systems 
(including question-answerers, planners, diagnosticians, and so forth) or to 
improve the accuracy, sample complexity, or computational or space 
requirement of learning processes. We encourage empirical studies and 
cognitive theories, as well as theoretical results.

We prefer plain-text, stand-alone LaTeX or Postscript submissions sent by 
electronic mail to:

greiner@learning.scr.siemens.com

Otherwise, please mail three copies to:

Russell Greiner
Cochair, AAAI Fall Symposium on Relevance
Siemens Corporate Research, Inc
755 College Road East
Princeton, NJ 08540-6632

Organizing Committee: 
Russ Greiner (cochair), Siemens Corporate Research, 
greiner@learning.scr. siemens.com; Yann Le Cun, AT&T Bell 
Laboratories; Nick Littlestone, NEC Research Institute; David McAllester, 
MIT; Judea Pearl, UCLA; Bart Selman, AT&T Bell Laboratories; Devika 
Subramanian (cochair), Cornell, devika@cs.cornell.edu.




