From skalsky@public.btr.com Thu Jan  6 18:33:40 EST 1994
Article: 20117 of comp.ai
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:20117
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!skalsky
From: skalsky@public.btr.com (Rick Skalsky UUCPR ed aaai.org skalsky@btr.com)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: AAAI 1994 Spring Symposium Series
Date: 5 Jan 1994 22:29:12 GMT
Organization: OpenLink, Inc
Lines: 763
Message-ID: <2gfevo$7ch@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: AI  AAAI Spring Symposium Series  1994


AAAI 1994 Spring Symposium Series

March 21-23, 1994
Stanford University, California
(Special Symposium, March 19-20)

Registration Brochure

Sponsored by the
American Association for Artificial Intelligence
445 Burgess Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025
(415) 328-3123
sss@aaai.org

The American Association for Artificial Intelligence, in cooperation with 
Stanford University's Department of Computer Science, presents the 1994 
Spring Symposium Series, to be held Monday - Wednesday, March 21-23, 
1994, at Stanford University. The topics of the ten symposia in the 1994 
Spring Symposium Series are:

-  Active NLP: Natural Language Understanding in Integrated Systems
-  Applications of Computer Vision in Medical Image Processing
-  Artificial Intelligence in Medicine: Interpreting Clinical Data
-  Computational Organization Design
-  Decision-Theoretic Planning
-  Detecting and Resolving Errors in Manufacturing Systems
-  Goal-Driven Learning
-  Intelligent Multi-Media Multi-Modal Systems
-  Software Agents
-  Toward Physical Interaction and Manipulation

In addition, an eleventh symposium will be held the preceding weekend (19 
and 20 March) at the same location:

-  Believable Agents

The highlights of each symposium will be presented at a special plenary 
session. Working notes will be prepared and distributed to participants in 
each symposium, but will not otherwise be available unless published as an 
AAAI Technical Report or edited collection.

Each symposium will have limited attendance. Participants will be expected 
to attend a single symposium throughout the symposium series.* In 
addition to participants selected by the program committee of the symposia, 
a limited number of other interested parties will be allowed to register in 
each symposium on a first-come, first-served basis. To register, please fill 
out the attached form, and send it along with payment to:

1994 Spring Symposium Series
AAAI
445 Burgess Drive
Menlo Park, CA 94025
Fax: (415) 321-4457 (credit card orders only)
Email: sss@aaai.org (credit card orders only)

*Please note: The symposium on Believable Agents will be held the 
weekend preceding the remainder of the symposia. Participation in this 
symposium does not preclude attendance at one of the others.



Active NLP: Natural Language Understanding in Integrated Systems

Active NLP, in analogy to Active Vision, focuses on how understanding is 
pragmatically determined by the goals of the overall system. For this 
reason, the symposium welcomes participants who would not normally 
consider themselves to be working on natural language, but who are 
interested in how natural language could be a part of their research.

This symposium is designed to address issues raised by the interaction or 
integration of natural language understanding in complete systems. Rather 
than see natural language as a text meaning extraction problem, the 
symposium's emphasis is on how the goals of an intelligent system 
determine what it means to understand. A single example might be an 
advice-taking planner, which could range from a reactive system in which 
keywords are wired to behaviors, to a case-based scheduler that takes 
indexing advice.

Specific issues of interest include: how knowledge is shared between tasks 
at the design or implementation level; when, to what extent, and how 
system behavior affects language understanding or the reverse; what sort of 
learning takes place; and issues of architecture. In general, the symposium 
is interested in how natural language understanding affects the achievement 
of a system's goals, and how a system aimed at achieving goals affects a 
theory of natural language understanding.

Organizing Committee
Jill Fain Lehman, Carnegie Mellon University; Kurt Eiselt, Georgia Institute 
of Technology; Charles Martin (chair), University of Chicago, martin@cs. 
uchicago.edu; Marcel Schoppers, Stanford University.



Applications of Computer Vision in Medical Image Processing

Significant interest and activity in medical image processing has developed 
among computer vision researchers in the last several years. This 
interdisciplinary activity is still in a relatively early stage of development, in terms of applied technology, and the size of the research efforts.

This symposium is intended to serve several purposes:
-  To bring together vision and robotics researchers who are currently 
   applying computer vision to medical image processing problems. 
-  To increase communication between established researchers in medical 
   image processing and computer vision researchers.
-  To provide information to researchers that are interested in the field.

The symposium will consist of short presentations of papers and work in 
progress, and discussions. Working notes will be produced and distributed 
to the participants.
 
The symposium will focus on the following topics, among others:
-  image guided medical procedures and robotics 
-  image processing applied to laparoscopic and other endoscopic 
   procedures
-  change detection in medical images
-  recognition in medical images
-  multimodal registration of medical images
-  elastic registration of medical images
-  motion analysis in medical images
-  anatomical atlases
-  applications of computer vision in segmentation of medical imagery

Organizing Committee
Nicholas Ayache, INRIA; Eric Grimson, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology; Takeo Kanade, Carnegie Mellon University; Ron Kikinis, 
Harvard Medical School; William M. Wells III (chair), Harvard Medical 
School, sw@ai.mit.edu.



Artificial Intelligence in Medicine:Interpreting Clinical Data

Many current efforts in artificial intelligence in medicine are geared towards 
providing decision support for tasks such as monitoring patients' clinical 
courses, forecasting outcomes, and discovering new relational knowledge. 
The emphasis of this symposium will be on methodologies that provide 
robust autonomous performance in data-rich clinical environments ranging 
from busy outpatient practices to operating rooms and intensive care units. 
The symposium organizers have provided two sample data sets on which 
participants will focus their presentations. The first day of the symposium 
will be devoted to methods and research projects which deal with sparse 
information typical of clinical and outpatient medical practice, and the 
second day will focus on projects dealing with dense information typical of 
critical care environments. Each day's program will start with an invited talk 
and will be wrapped with a panel discussion. The highlight of the final day 
will be a panel discussion on evaluation and fielding of medical decision 
aids. The panelists (subject to change) will be Harry Pople, Peter Szolovits, 
Jeremy Wyatt, and David Margulies.

Organizing Committee
Enrico Coiera, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories/Bristol; Isaac Kohane 
(cochair), Harvard Medical School; Ramesh Patil, USC/Information 
Sciences Institute; Mario Stefanelli, Universita di Pavia; Serdar Uckun 
(cochair), Stanford University.



Believable Agents

AI researchers have long sought to construct autonomous, interactive 
creatures. These entities bring special delight when they are imagined to 
project a sense of being really there--aware, intentioned, and capable of 
significant social interaction. Accomplishing this is increasingly demanded 
by new trends in user interfaces and interactive entertainment.

AI researchers generally have tried to achieve this effect by modeling human 
capabilities as deeply as possible. However, this may be only part of the 
solution. The arts (film, drama, novels) have long studied a related 
problem, in which the agents, called "characters," are created to permit 
suspension of disbelief. Artists know how to achieve this using highly 
simplified agents (simple body, simple mind, simple environment, e.g., 
Bugs Bunny). They know what abstractions can be made safely, and which 
facets of appearance and behavior are crucial to maintain. We believe these 
artists can significantly inform AI researchers trying to construct believable 
interactive creatures.

This symposium will bring together researchers and artists interested in 
merging AI and the arts to explore the idea of believable agents. We feel this 
is a fresh way of looking at the task of building agents, and that clarifying 
the nature of this familiar task will yield interesting new research problems 
and useful new artifacts.

Organizing Committee
Joseph Bates (chair), Carnegie Mellon University; Barbara Hayes-Roth, 
Stanford University; Brenda Laurel, Interval Research; Nils Nilsson, 
Stanford University.



Computational Organization Design

COD is an important research area and an interesting and promising class of 
abstract design problems. Key research questions include:

How can design process models (DPMs) for organizational design be 
characterized, identified and verified? A DPM is an explicit model of the 
activities carried out while creating a design. Adopting a particular DPM 
amounts to making the hypothesis that, over a collection of design 
problems, applying the DPM will generate a useful percentage of highly-
evaluated acceptable designs with acceptable levels of effort.

Can AI, with its unique capabilities for rigorous, qualitative inference, 
provide powerful new capabilities to formalize and execute organization 
theory? For example, most organization theory to date makes only 
qualitative predictions about aggregate behaviors of organizations, treating 
environmental constraints and contingencies like point loads at the center of 
mass of the organization.

How can COD contribute in practical arenas such as business process 
reengineering and redesign?

To what extent can organization design be treated as a routine design 
problem, with a well defined space of possibilities and explicit evaluation 
criteria?

Are there any important implications of the fact that organizations are 
abstract objects, subject to constraints of a different nature from the 
constraints that physical objects are subject to?

How should a DPM for COD differ from DPMs for other applications?

What role does creative design play in COD?

Other questions are: What is the state of the art of computational 
organization design? What should the agenda for future research be?

The goal of this symposium is to bring together researchers from the fields 
of AI, design and organization theory in order to define and build a 
community of researchers active in computational organization design. The 
format of the symposium will be designed with the aim of supporting this 
goal and will include selected presentations and extensive, but closely 
moderated, discussions.

Organizing Committee
Ingemar Hulthage (chair), University of Southern California, 
hulthage@usc.edu; Raymond E. Levitt, Stanford University; Duvvuru 
Sriram, MIT; Sarosh Talukdar, Carnegie-Mellon University.



Decision-Theoretic Planning

Both AI planning and decision theory are devoted to the problem of how an 
agent can or should choose a course of action, given information about the 
world and about its capabilities and preferences. Historically, the AI 
community has concentrated on the task of synthesizing plans from 
primitive actions, whereas research in decision theory and related disciplines 
has concentrated on formalizing and exploring frameworks for choosing 
among alternatives.

This symposium aims to unify current lines of research in AI planning with 
that in related disciplines---decision analysis, economics, and control 
theory, for example---by exploring how decision-theoretic constructs for 
describing an agent's preferences and uncertain beliefs can be applied to the 
problem of plan synthesis. 

This symposium will be of interest to researchers in automated planning and 
decision making, and especially those investigating the connection between 
AI techniques and normative theories of decision. Symposium topics will 
include, but will not be limited to: algorithms for planning and sequential 
decision making, representing and reasoning about preferences, modeling 
the uncertain effects of actions, constructing probabilistic domain models 
and utility-theoretic preference models, specialized problems and  
representations, decision-theoretic approaches to meta-level reasoning.

Organizing Committee
Steve Hanks (chair), University of Washington, hanks@cs.washington. 
edu; Stuart Russell, University of California, Berkeley; Michael P. 
Wellman, University of Michigan.



Detecting and Resolving Errors in Manufacturing Systems

This symposium will bring together researchers working on 
troubleshooting, diagnosis, monitoring, and recovery from errors in 
manufacturing applications. The main purpose is to bring together people 
from manufacturing with people from AI to discuss how AI techniques and 
methodologies can be used to address the problems of detecting and 
resolving errors. The symposium will provide a forum for reviewing the 
state of the art and for proposing new avenues of exploration.

Any system designed to perform a manufacturing task must have ways of 
detecting and recovering from errors. Timely detection of anomalies in the 
behavior of the system is essential for its continuous safe operation. This 
involves preventing or minimizing the occurrence of faults through robust 
design, detecting abnormal conditions, isolating faults, and finding ways of 
maintaining safe operation despite the presence of faults. The manufacturing 
environment is often sufficiently uncertain and dynamic, and the 
manufacturing systems are sufficiently complex to make detection and 
recovery from errors a major task. The purpose of this symposium is to 
analyze these issues and propose how to create manufacturing systems able 
to achieve their tasks despite unpredicted contingencies.

The symposium intends to maintain a balance between theoretical issues and 
more practical descriptions of implemented systems. There will be invited 
talks, sessions of contributed papers, and panel discussions. The emphasis 
will be on discussing issues and approaches not simply on presenting 
papers.

Organizing Committee
Robert D. Borchelt, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Frank DiCesare, 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; Bruce Donald, Cornell University; Mark 
Drummond, NASA Ames Research Center; Maria Gini (chair), University 
of Minnesota; Damian Lyons, Philips Laboratories.



Goal-Driven Learning

Goal-driven learning refers to the process of using the overall goals of an 
intelligent system to make decisions about when learning should occur, 
what should be learned, and which learning strategies are appropriate in a 
given context. This focusing process may take place at any decision point 
during learning---for example, when determining what to learn, selecting a 
bias, pruning the space of theories to be considered, or generating 
experiments for data gathering.

Research in psychology, education, and AI has shown the need for 
intelligent systems to make decisions about what and how to learn. The 
common rationale, and the principle around which the symposium will be 
organized, is that the value of learning depends on how well it satisfies the 
goals of the system. The symposium will bring together researchers from 
diverse research areas to discuss issues in how learning goals arise, how 
they affect learner decisions of when and what to learn, and how they guide 
the learning process.

Time will be set aside for debate and discussion during the technical 
sessions, and the symposium will conclude with a panel and audience 
discussion of the issues raised during the symposium. Members of the 
concluding panel will be selected during the meeting, with the intention of 
creating a panel representative of the viewpoints expressed at the 
symposium.

Organizing Committee
Marie desJardins (cochair), SRI International, marie@erg.sri.com; 
Lawrence Hunter, Foster John Provost, Ashwin Ram (cochair), Georgia 
Institute of Technology, ashwin@cc.gatech.edu.




Intelligent Multi-Media Multi-Modal Systems

The symposium is aimed at bringing together researchers from computer 
vision, natural language processing, generation and input of text, speech, 
and graphics, knowledge representation, discourse planning, human activity 
modeling and human computer interaction. The symposium will cover 
problems of AI and HCI that address the issues of developing advanced 
forms of input and output using multi-media, multi-modal systems. The 
symposium will bring together the theories and practices of AI and HCI 
modeling to solve problems facing the design of real interactive application 
systems.

The symposium will consider the following issues:

1) Use of computer based vision techniques to perform face recognition, 
gesture recognition, lip reading and eye movement tracking as forms of 
input to interactive programs. Also, of concern is how to integrate and 
interpret multiple inputs (e.g., text, speech, gesture, eye motion) into a 
common semantic representation.

2) Generating integrated, textual, graphical (including 2d, 3d, and 
animation) and speech output as part of an interactive dialogue.

3) Using semantic and pragmatic discourse models to structure M4 input 
and output dialogues. Also of interest here is the acquisition, representation, 
and maintenance of models of media, the user, and the multimedia dialogue.

4) Using agent-based models to specialize the integration of M4 interactive 
systems.

5) Facilitating direct interaction between KBSs and end users through M4 
interactions to support the externalization and development of knowledge.

Organizing Committee
Steve Feiner, Columbia University; Peter Johnson (chair), Queen Mary and 
Westfield College, University of London; Joe Marks, DEC Cambridge; 
Mark Maybury, MITRE Boston; Johanna Moore, University of Pittsburgh.



Software Agents

Software agents are sensor/effector systems that operate within real-world 
software environments such as operating systems, databases, or computer 
networks. Their sensors observe features of this external environment, and 
their effectors can both alter the state of the environment directly, and 
communicate with other agents. Software agents pursue goals such as 
acquiring information about the environment or modifying its state, either 
individually or in teams. In contrast to work on human-computer 
collaboration, our focus is on agents with a high degree of autonomy and 
flexibility.

Advances in computer, information, and telecommunications technology 
have made software agents both necessary and possible. However, the role 
of AI and AI researchers in these developments has yet to be determined. 
We believe that AI has the potential to contribute to these developments, on 
the one hand, and that software domains offer fascinating research 
challenges on the other. To capitalize on this opportunity we seek to bring 
together researchers in this new area, to develop a common vocabulary, and 
to identify the fundamental research issues that define it. Specifically, we 
would like to identify:
-  Challenge problems for the community (e.g. E-mail filtering)
-  Possibilities for software agent interaction (e.g. can Maes and Mitchell's 
   meeting scheduling systems query Etzioni's UNIX softbot for information 
   about potential meeting participants such as their phone numbers, current 
   location, etc.?)
-  Possible connections to computer scientists outside AI (in databases, 
   operating systems, office automation, etc.)

Organizing Committee
Oren Etzioni (chair), University of Washington; Pattie Maes, MIT; Tom 
Mitchell, Carnegie Mellon University; Yoav Shoham, Stanford University.



Toward Physical Interaction and Manipulation

The range and scope of practical robotics applications depends critically on 
the ability of robots to physically interact with their environments. Current 
applications are highly specialized, and typically they involve carefully 
controlled, well understood workspaces with little or no sensory feedback. 
Construction costs and inflexibility limit the economic viability of these 
systems. The general manipulation skills of humans and other animals 
contrasts starkly with the current capabilities of robots. From threading a 
needle, to opening a door, catching a ball, or moving a sofa, humans 
engage their environments in myriad ways. Unlike most current robots, 
humans rely upon rich sources of sensory feedback to cope with 
uncertainties in the world.

The purpose of this symposium is to draw together researchers from a range 
of disciplines to study the principles of physical interaction and 
manipulation. Our objectives are theories, paradigms, and ontologies for 
describing and understanding natural systems and for designing and 
building artificial systems capable of manipulating their environments.

The discussion will center on a specific set of tasks selected in advance, 
such as catching a ball or feeding a person. Selected designs will be 
presented, discussed, and compared in an attempt to reach a more general 
understanding. By analyzing a range of tasks, we aim to broaden the 
perspective, identifying common themes and useful design principles.

Organizing Committee
Emilio Bizzi, MIT; Jon Connell, IBM Watson; David Coombs (co-chair), 
NIST, david.coombs@nist.gov; Ken Goldberg, USC; Rod Grupen, 
UMass; Stan Rosenschein, Teleos Research; Steven Whitehead (co-chair), 
GTE Labs, swhitehead@gte.com.



Registration Information

ALL ATTENDEES MUST PREREGISTER. Each symposium has a limited 
attendance, with priority given to invited attendees. All accepted authors, 
symposium participants, and other invited attendees must register by 
February 15, 1994. After that period, registration will be opened up to the 
general membership of AAAI and other interested parties. All registrations 
must be postmarked by March 1, 1994.

Your registration fee covers your attendance at the symposium, a copy of 
the working notes for your symposium, and the reception. 

Checks (drawn on US bank) or international money orders should be made 
out to AAAI. VISA, MasterCard and American Express are also accepted. 
Please complete the attached registration form and send it to sss@aaai.org
or fax it to 415/321-4457.

Parking will be available on the Stanford campus from March 21-23 for 
$15.00. Parking for attendees of the Believable Agents Symposium, March 
19-20, will be available for $10.00. Application for a parking permit is 
included on the attached registration form. A permit will be mailed to you 
with your preregistration materials along with a map and directions to the 
assigned lots.

Please note: Requests for refunds must be received in writing by March 4, 
1994. A $25.00 processing fee will be levied on all refunds granted.

When you arrive at Stanford, please pick up your complete registration 
packet in the lobby of Cubberley Auditorium, located in the School of 
Education. Registration hours will be:

Saturday, March 19:	8:00 am-5:00 pm
Sunday, March 20:	8:00 am-5:00 pm
Monday, March 21:	8:00 pm-5:00 pm
Tuesday, March 22: 	8:00 am-5:00 pm
Wednesday, March 23: 	8:00 am-12:00 pm

Please call Sally McLaughlin at 415/ 328-3123 for further information.


Hotels

For your convenience, AAAI has reserved a block of rooms at the following 
hotels:

Symposium attendees must contact the hotels directly. Please identify 
yourself as an AAAI Spring Symposium Series registrant to qualify for the 
reduced rate.

Creekside Inn (Best Western)
3400 El Camino Real
Palo Alto, CA 94306
Phone: 415/493-2411
Fax: 415/493-6787
Marguerite shuttle pick-up: 0.5 mile
Rates: $68 (S or D)
Reserve before 2/26/94

Holiday Inn-Palo Alto
625 El Camino Real
Palo Alto, CA 94301
Phone: 415/328-2800 or 800/874-3516
Fax: 415/327-7362
Marguerite shuttle stop nearby
Rates: $92 (S), $102 (D)
Reserve before: 3/7/93

Stanford Terrace Inn
531 Stanford Ave
Palo Alto, CA 94306
Phone: 415/857-0333
Fax: 415/857-0343
Marguerite shuttle stop nearby
Rates: $82 (S), $92 (D)
Reserve before: 2/25/93


Other Hotels
(Available only on a first-come, first served basis; all prices are subject to 
changes without notice):

Mermaid Inn
727 El Camino Real
Menlo Park, CA 94025
Phone: 415/323-9481 (No fax).
Rates: $48-56 (S), $58-68 (D)

Riviera Motor Lodge
15 El Camino Real
Menlo Park, CA 94025
Phone: 415/321-8772
Fax: 415/321-2137
Rates:  $45 (S), $50 (D)

The Cardinal Hotel
235 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
Phone: 415/323-5101
Fax: 415/325-6086
Marguerite shuttle stop nearby
Rates: $60 (S & D)

Hotel California
2431 Ash Street
Palo Alto, CA 94306
Phone: 415/322-7666 (No fax).
Marguerite shuttle stop nearby
Rates: $50 (S), $53 (D)
(Continental breakfast included)

Travelodge
3255 El Camino Real
Palo Alto, CA 94306
Phone: 415/493-6340
Fax: 415/424-9535
Marguerite shuttle stop nearby
Rates: $492 (S), $54 (D)


Air Transportation

AAAI has selected United Airlines as the official carrier. Fares will reflect a 
five percent discount (ticket designator is XF5) off any United or United 
Express published fare in effect when tickets are purchased, subject to all 
applicable restrictions, or a ten percent discount (ticket designator is XF10) 
off applicable United or United Express coach fares in effect when tickets 
are purchased 0 days in advance and the reservations are made in M class of 
service. These special fares are subject to availability at the time of booking. 
Call United Airlines directly (800/521-4041) seven days a week from 7:00 
am-1:00 am EST. If you prefer dealing with a travel agent, you may contact 
Travel with Ulla, (415/389-6264 or fax 415/388-6830). The identification 
code is 545RS. The discount is valid for the travel period March 16-26, 
1994.

Disclaimer: In offering United Airlines, Hertz, the Creekside Inn (Best 
Western), Holiday Inn, and Stanford Terrace Inn (hereinafter referred to as 
"Supplier") and all other service providers for the AAAI Spring Symposium 
Series, the American Association for Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) acts only 
in the capacity of agent for the Supplier which is the provider of 
transportation or of hotel rooms. Because AAAI has no control over the 
personnel, equipment or operations of providers of accommodations or 
other services included as part of the Symposium program, AAAI assumes 
no responsibility for and will not be liable for any personal delay, 
inconveniences or other damage suffered by symposium participants which 
may arise by reason of (1) any wrongful or negligent acts or omissions on 
the part of any Supplier or its employees, (2) any defect in or failure of any 
vehicle, equipment or instrumentality owned, operated or otherwise used by 
any Supplier, or (3) any wrongful or negligent acts or omissions on the part 
of any other party not under the control, direct or otherwise, of AAAI.


Ground Transportation

This information is the best available at time of printing. Fares and routes 
change frequently. Please check by telephoning the appropriate numbers 
below for the most up-to-date information.


Car Rental

Hertz has been designated as the official rental car company for the AAAI 
Spring Symposium Series. To qualify for the special rates, please call the 
Hertz Convention desk at 800/654-2240. Be sure to identify yourself as an 
attendee of the symposium, and give the code CV #3338. Hertz has 
convenient rental desks located at both the San Francisco and San Jose 
airports.

Van

Supershuttle--24 hour van service to and from San Francisco Airport. San 
Francisco Airport-Palo Alto rates are: $23.00 for one person one way; 
$23.00 plus $7.00 for two persons going to the same address. Cash and 
major credit cards accepted. For reservations call 415/558-8500.

Airport Connection--Van service $15.00 one way to and from San 
Francisco Airport to Palo Alto. From San Jose Airport, shared ride service 
(no vans) is $19.00 to Palo Alto. Cash, major credit cards, or checks 
accepted. Call 415/363-1500 within California, or 800/247-7678 in other 
areas. White courtesy telephone available at San Francisco Airport.

Stanford Shuttle
The Stanford University Marguerite Shuttle Bus service provides service 
from several points along El Camino Real, the train station, and other 
surrounding locations to the Stanford Oval as well as transportation around 
the Stanford campus. Complete Marguerite schedules will be included in 
registration packet.

Train
CalTrain runs between San Francisco and Palo Alto station starting at 5:15 
am with the last train leaving San Francisco at 10:00 pm (weekdays), 12:00 
midnight (Friday and Saturday nights). The fare is $6.50 round trip for 
same-day travel, or $3.25 one way. For up-to-date fare information and 
time tables, call toll free 800/660-4287.

Tentative Program Schedule (subject to change)

Saturday, March 19: 9:00 am-5:30 pm
Symposia Session: Believable Agents

Sunday, March 20: 9:00 am-5:30 pm
Symposia Session: Believable Agents

Monday, March 21: 9:00 am-5:30 pm
Symposia sessions
Reception, Faculty Club: 
6:00 pm-7:00 pm

Tuesday, March 22: 9:00 am-5:30 pm
Symposia sessions
Plenary sessions, Cubberley Auditorium: 
7:30 pm-9:00 pm

Wednesday, March 23: 9:00 am-12:30 pm
Symposia sessions

Registration will be in the lobby of Cubberly Auditorium in the School of 
Education.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

AAAI Spring Symposium Series
REGISTRATION FORM

ALL ATTENDEES MUST PREREGISTER.
Please complete in full and return to AAAI no later than February 15, 1994
(invited attendees), or by March 1, 1994 (general registration).

Please print or type.

First Name:

Last Name:

Affiliation:

Address (Indicate home or business):

City:

State:

Zip or postal code:

Country:

Daytime telephone:

Email:

****************************************************************************

SYMPOSIUM

(Please choose only one, except in the case of Believable Agents, which
 may be taken with one other symposium for an additional registration fee.)

1.  Active NLP: Natural Language Understanding in Integrated Systems
2.  Applications of Computer Vision in Medical Image Processing
3.  Artificial Intelligence in Medicine: Interpreting Clinical Data
4.  Believable Agents (March 19-20)
5.  Computational Organization Design
6.  Decision-Theoretic Planning
7.  Detecting and Resolving Errors in Manufacturing Systems
8.  Goal-Driven Learning
9.  Intelligent Multi-Media Multi-Modal Systems
10. Software Agents
11. Toward Physical Interaction and Manipulation


****************************************************************************

FEE

Member:			$215.00
Student Member:		$100.00
Nonmember:		$255.00
Student Nonmember:	$120.00

(Students must send legible proof of full-time student status.)

Temporary Stanford University parking permit:

March 19-20:		$10.00
March 21-23:		$15.00
March 19-23:		$25.00

TOTAL FEE (Please enter correct amount):

******************************************************************************

METHOD OF PAYMENT

All email and fax registrations must be accompanied by credit card information.
AAAI accepts MasterCard, Visa, and American Express. Checks will also be
accepted through the regular mail.  Prepayment is required. No PO's will be
accepted.

Credit Card #:
Expiration Date:
Name (as it appears on card):

Please send your completed registration form to sss@aaai.org or fax it
to 415-321-4457. Registrations may also be mailed to SSS-94, AAAI,
445 Burgess Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025.

Please note: Requests for refunds must be received in writing by March 4, 1994.
A $25.00 processing fee will be levied on all refunds granted.

Thank you for your registration!




