Number 28                                                June 15,1992

                      The Huntington Technical Brief 
                          By David Brubaker Ph.D.
    
                  Fuzzy Evidence in Character Recognition
                  ---------------------------------------

     INTRODUCTION 
     
     This month we will discuss a fuzzy application in character
     recognition that The Huntington Group developed under contract
     to Canon Research Center America.  A departure from the
     previously presented applications, this system does not use a
     rule-base as its basis. [Not present in this online version 
     of the newsletter is a drawing of a captial "A" with each
     of the three segments that make an "A" labeled - seg. 1, 
     seg. 2, seg. 3.]

     
     
     ARCHITECTURE
     
     The goal in character recognition is to determine
     how well an unknown character matches one of a set of known
     characters - in our case the fifty-two upper and lower-case
     letters, ten numeric digits, and seven of the punctuation marks.
     The use of a fuzzy measure, an indication of how well an unknown
     entity fits into a crisp set, is ideal. The overall structure
     therefore involves creating templates of the possible characters
     and determining which (if any) of the templates an unknown
     character best matches.
          
     To introduce terminology, we start with a "premise", for example:
     THE SAMPLE CHARACTER IS AN UPPERCASE "A". A "template" of an
     uppercase A is created, made up of necessary "criteria". These
     criteria are individually matched to the "characteristics" of the
     unknown "sample". The matching of a characteristic to a criterion
     results in an individual piece of "evidence".
     
     Evidence may be either "supportive" or "opposive" (a coined term,
     intended to indicate the opposite of "supportive"). Supportive
     evidence supports and opposive evidence opposes the associated
     premise.
     
     Evidence may also be either "cumulative" or "conclusive".  A piece
     of cumulative evidence in and of itself does not prove the
     premise; the accumulation of cumulative evidence provides
     increasingly strong support or opposition. Conclusive evidence
     either proves or disproves the premise without need for further
     evidence.
     
     All accumulated evidence is combined to form a final verdict. 
     
     
     CHARACTER RECOGNITION
     
     The shapes of printed alphanumeric characters and punctuation
     can be thought of as collections of interconnected segments,
     each segment being either a line or a curve - a line is
     straight, a curve is not. Preprocessing reduces
     pixel-represented sample characters to the necessary segment
     representations.
     
     The criteria that make up templates are expressed using these
     segments, with characteristics expressed in fuzzy terms. For
     example, a line may be defined to be LONG and its slope to be
     nearly 90 degrees. A curve may be defined to be SHORT, with its
     orientation (the equivalent of a line's slope) HORIZONTAL and its
     arc approximately 180 degrees.
     
     Template criteria based on the characteristics of individual
     segments are obviously not enough.  Criteria based on both the
     connections between segments, and the positional relationships
     among the segments must also be expressed.  This can also be done
     using fuzzy terms.
     
     EXAMPLE -  To be described will be the three step sequence to
     determine the degree of validity of the premise:  The sample is
     an uppercase A.
     
     The first step consists of a single criterion that conclusively
     opposes the premise.  Specifically, if any of the unknown samples
     segments is a curve, the verdict is set to V = 1, opposive (the
     sample character is not an A), and further attempts to match the
     sample to the "A" template are aborted.
     
     The second step is a preliminary pass to see if the character
     might be an A. Three criteria are specified:
     
          1) That there is a line (seg_1) whose length is LONG,
          slanting slightly to the right of vertical;
     
          2) That there is another line (seg_2) with length very nearly
          equal to the length of seg_1, and slanting slightly to the left
          of vertical; and
     
          3) That there is a third line (seg_3) with length MEDIUM whose
          slope is HORIZONTAL.
     
     Successful matching of sample characteristics to the three
     criteria forms three pieces of evidence which, when combined,
     form the preliminary verdict that the unknown character may be
     an A. If the verdict is strongly supportive, the third and final
     set of criteria is considered. These are:
     
     
          1) That seg_3 be positioned between seg_1 and seg_2;
     
          2) That the leftmost endpoint of seg_3 connect to roughly the
          midpoint of seg_1;
     
          3) That the right most endpoint of seg_3 connect to roughly the
          midpoint of seg_2; and
     
          4) That the upper endpoints of seg_1 and seg_2 connect.
     
     Having formed additional evidence by attempting matches on these
     criteria, the final verdict as to whether the unknown character
     is an A or not is available. If the verdict is strongly
     supportive, the conclusion that the character is an A will be
     considered final, and templates of other characters (B, C, etc.)
     will not be considered.
     
     If, however, the verdict is weakly supportive, matches to the
     templates of other letters will be attempted, with the search
     order based on what character might be weakly considered an A
     (for example, an R or H). Finally, if the verdict is opposive,
     the standard search sequence will be continued.
     
     RESULTS - Preliminary results on non-noisy and partially noisy
     characters shows high success in character recognition. The
     search process, however, is slow in the software based solution.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------

     The Huntington Technical Brief is published monthly as part of
     the marketing effort of Dr. David Brubaker of The Huntington 
     Group.  The unedited version complete with all figures is
     available at a subscription price of $24.00 per year.  Past
     issues are available for $1.00 and samples of the Huntington
     Report are available at no charge.  Please call Dr.  David
     Brubaker at the number below for complete details.  The 42-page
     report "Introduction to Fuzzy Logic Systems" is available for
     $35.00.
          
     For the past sixteen years Dr. Brubaker has provided technical
     consulting services in the design of complex systems, real-time,
     embedded processor systems, and for the past five years, fuzzy
     logic systems. If you need out-of-house expertise in any of
     these, please call 415-325-7554.
     
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     
                  Copyright 1992 by The Huntington Group 
         883 Santa Cruz Avenue, Suite 31 Menlo Park, CA 94025-4608

                      This information is provided by
                             Aptronix FuzzyNet
                       408-428-1883 Data USR V.32bis

