     Number 32                                            November 92

                      The Huntington Technical Brief 
                          By David Brubaker Ph.D.

                             FUZZY REFERENCES
                             ----------------

     INTRODUCTION 


     A request I receive regularly is for a good reference book on
     fuzzy logic and fuzzy logic systems. This is a difficult request,
     as much of what is currently available is written by
     academic-oriented authors and contains a heavy emphasis on
     mathematical representation at a level foreign to most
     practicing engineers.
     
     However, some of these texts are more readable than others, and
     by searching individual topics and only wading into the more
     esoteric math when absolutely necessary, much can be gained.
     
     Journal articles are also available, although again the articles
     have an academic bent. Two journals that cover fuzzy topics are
     Fuzzy Sets and Systems, from North-Holland, with Constantin
     Negoita, Lotfi Zadeh, and Hans Zimmermann (principle) as
     editors, and the International Journal of Approximate Reasoning,
     also from North Holland, with James Bezdek as editor-in-chief.
     Although price and content would typically rule against a
     practicing engineer subscribing, access to these journals and
     ongoing review is advisable - the basis for future fuzzy
     techniques is being investigated by researchers today.
     
     What follows is a list of texts from my library that are
     dedicated to fuzzy topics. The list should be considered
     representative of what is available, although not complete. My
     acquisition technique has been to stop by the Stanford Bookstore
     approximately once a month and purchase any book with the term
     "fuzzy" either explicitly contained or implied by its title.
     
     The first section contains the books I most often recommend to 
     others, and includes the comments I typically offer with my 
     recommendation. The second section contains those books that are
     difficult to read, or for one reason or another, do not directly
     apply to applied fuzzy engineering. Sadly, space prohibits
     comments on these. Both sections are ordered alphabetically by
     author.
     
     Recommended Books
     
     Klir and Folger: Fuzzy Sets, Uncertainty, and Information -
     Prentice- Hall, 1988.
     
     This is a good, solid book, and the one I most easily recommend
     to the serious newcomer. Although the discussion is strongly
     based on mathematical principles, the concepts and notation are
     easily understood and are explained in the text. During an
     initial reading, sections may need to be studied several times,
     but the content is worth the effort.
     
     Chapter titles are: Crisp Sets and Fuzzy Sets; Operations on
     Fuzzy Sets; Fuzzy Relations; Fuzzy Measures; Uncertainty and
     Information; and Applications. Applications are discussed less
     deeply than the theory of the previous chapters, with general,
     rather than detailed, examples.
     
     The book is a by-product of a graduate level class taught by the
     authors, and has exercises to be worked at the end of each
     chapter. That it is intended as a teaching tool definitely
     enhances its readability.
     
     Kosko: Neural Networks and Fuzzy Systems - A Dynamical Systems 
     Approach to Machine Intelligence - Prentice-Hall, 1992.
     Although less general than Klir and Folger, the last half of this
     book is an excellent choice for the engineer who wants to
     understand the theory behind fuzzy rule-based systems, and how
     such systems compare to other modern systems. The first half,
     chapters 1 through 6, is on neural networks. Part 2, titled
     Adaptive Fuzzy Systems, starts with chapter 7.
     
     To set the stage, the author  introduces his hypercube 
     representation of fuzzy sets (which terminology is used,
     incidentally, in both the company name HyperLogic, and its fuzzy
     product, CubiCalc), and then the concept of a fuzzy associative
     memory, or FAM, a mapping between hypercubes. He shows how most
     current fuzzy rule-based systems are a special case of a FAM.
     
     Turning now to applications, the next three chapters present a 
     comparison of a fuzzy control system and a neural system, address
     fuzzy image transform coding, and present another comparison,
     this time of a fuzzy and Kalman-filter control system.
     
     Often we learn and discover by looking at something we already 
     know from a new angle and recognize nuances and the potential for
     growth we could not previously see. To me, this is the value of
     this book, to view something we thought was familiar, fuzzy
     rule-based systems, in an entirely different way, and by doing
     so to expand our own awareness of what is possible using a fuzzy
     approach. 
     
     Sugeno, editor: Industrial Applications of Fuzzy Control - North
     Holland, 1985.
     
     This is a meat-and-potatoes description of how fuzzy logic has
     been used in industry. Ten applications are described, including
     automatic train control, water purification, and control of a
     diesel engine. In addition, three articles discuss the
     development and application of fuzzy models, one article
     describes a microprocessor based fuzzy controller, and finally,
     there is an annotated bibliography of fuzzy control compiled by
     Richard Tong.
     
     This book is excellent, presenting at various levels of depth how
     fuzzy systems were being used world-wide in the 1985 time frame.
     It is a bit pricey, presently selling for over $100, but worth
     it for those serious in fuzzy control.
     
     Yager, Ovchinnikov, Tong, and Nguyen, editors: Fuzzy Sets and 
     Applications: Selected Papers by L. A. Zadeh - John Wiley & Sons,
     1987.
     
     This is a wonderful collection of eighteen papers written by
     Lotfi Zadeh, the father of fuzzy logic. It starts with the
     seminal 1965 paper, and concludes with a 1986 paper on a
     computational approach to the representation of meaning. Between
     are such titles as: "Decision- Making in a Fuzzy Environment",
     "A Theory of Approximate Reasoning", and "A Theory of
     Commonsense Knowledge".
     
     That it is a collection of Zadeh's papers alone gives this book
     great value. To read the lucid, (for the most part)
     easy-to-understand renderings on the application of fuzzy set
     theory to widely disparate topics further enhances the value.
     But to me, the joy comes from seeing, in these papers, a great
     mind at work.
     
     Terano, Asai and Sugeno: Fuzzy Systems Theory and Its
     Applications - Academic Press, (English) 1992.
     
     This is a new book, recently translated from Japanese, and one I
     have only skimmed. It looks good. There is a fair amount of 
     mathematical representation, but well supported by explanations
     in the text.
     
     The book contains sixteen chapters. The first eight chapters 
     address  basic fuzzy theory, fuzzy relations, fuzzy regression
     models, statistical decision making, fuzzy quantification
     theory, fuzzy mathematical programming, and evaluation. The last
     eight chapters address applying theory, and deal with diagnosis,
     control, human activities, robots, image recognition, databases,
     information retrieval, and damage assessment.
     
     The English translation is very good - from those parts I have
     read, it is impossible to tell that English is not the original
     language. A preliminary thumbs up.
     
     Support and Specialized Books
     
     Bezdek and Pal, editors: Fuzzy Models For Pattern Recognition - 
     Methods That Search for Structures in Data - IEEE Press, 1992.
     Bezdek: Pattern Recognition with Fuzzy Objective Function
     Algorithms - Plenum Press, 1981.
     
     Dubois and Prade: Fuzzy Sets and Systems: Theory and Applications
     - Plenum Press, 1980.
     
     Dubois and Prade: Possibility Theory - An Approach to
     Computerized Processing of Uncertainty - Plenum Press, (English)
     1988.
     
     Kandel: Fuzzy Techniques in Pattern Recognition - John Wiley &
     Sons, 1982.
     
     Kandel: Fuzzy Mathematical Techniques with Applications -
     Addison- Wesley, 1986.
     
     Kandel: Fuzzy Expert Systems - CRC Press, 1992.
     
     Kaufman and Gupta: Introduction to Fuzzy Arithmetic - Theory and
     Applications - Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1985.
     
     Negoita: Expert Systems and Fuzzy Systems - Benjamin/Cummings, 
     1985.
     
     Negoita and Ralescu: Simulation, Knowledge-Based Computing, and 
     Fuzzy Statistics - Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1987.
     
     Novak: Fuzzy Sets and Their Applications - Adam Hilger, (English)
     1989.
     
     Pedrycz: Fuzzy Control and Fuzzy Systems - Research Studies Press
     / John Wiley & Sons, 1989.
     
     Schmucker: Fuzzy Sets, Natural Language Computations, and Risk 
     Analysis - Computer Science Press, 1984.
     
     Smithson: Fuzzy Set Analysis for Behavioral and Social Sciences -
     Springer-Verlag, 1987.
     
     Smithson: Ignorance and Uncertainty - Emerging Paradigms - 
     Springer-Verlag, 1989.
     
     Yager and Zadeh, editors: An Introduction to Fuzzy Logic
     Applications in Intelligent Systems - Kluwer Academic, 1992.
     
     Zadeh and Kacprzyk, editors: Fuzzy Logic for the Management of 
     Uncertainty - John Wiley & Sons, 1992.
     
     Zimmermann: Fuzzy Set Theory - and Its Applications - Kluwer-
     Nijhoff, 1985.
     
     Zimmermann: Fuzzy Sets, Decision Making, and Expert Systems - 
     Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1987.
     
     Happy reading.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------
         
     The Huntington Technical Brief is published monthly as part of
     the marketing effort of Dr. David Brubaker of The Huntington 
     Group.  The unedited version complete with all figures is
     available at a subscription price of $24.00 per year.  Past
     issues are available for $1.00 and samples of the Huntington
     Report are available at no charge.  Please call Dr.  David
     Brubaker at the number below for complete details.  The 42-page
     report "Introduction to Fuzzy Logic Systems" is available for
     $35.00.
          
     For the past sixteen years Dr. Brubaker has provided technical
     consulting services in the design of complex systems, real-time,
     embedded processor systems, and for the past five years, fuzzy
     logic systems. If you need out-of-house expertise in any of
     these, please call 415-325-7554.
     
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     
                  Copyright 1992 by The Huntington Group 
         883 Santa Cruz Avenue, Suite 31 Menlo Park, CA 94025-4608

                      This information is provided by
                             Aptronix FuzzyNet
                       408-428-1883 Data USR V.32bis

