From honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!munnari.oz.au!bunyip.cc.uq.oz.au!s1.elec.uq.oz.au!dlovell Fri Aug 27 10:53:50 EDT 1993
Article: 12004 of comp.ai.neural-nets
Xref: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai.neural-nets:12004
Newsgroups: comp.ai.neural-nets
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!munnari.oz.au!bunyip.cc.uq.oz.au!s1.elec.uq.oz.au!dlovell
From: dlovell@s1.elec.uq.oz.au (David Lovell)
Subject: ACNN'94 Call for papers
Message-ID: <CCEMKH.KJF@bunyip.cc.uq.oz.au>
Sender: news@bunyip.cc.uq.oz.au (USENET News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: s3.elec.uq.oz.au
Organization: Dept. of Electrical Engineering,University of Queensland
Date: Fri, 27 Aug 1993 06:12:17 GMT
Lines: 223

	         Call for Papers

		     ACNN'94

	   FIFTH AUSTRALIAN CONFERENCE
	              ON
	        NEURAL NETWORKS

             31st Jan - 2nd Feb 1994

	    Univeristy of Queensland
		   St Lucia
                   Queensland
	           AUSTRALIA

The Fifth Australian Conference on Neural Networks 
will be held in Brisbane on 31st January - 2nd February, 
1994, at the University of Queensland.

ACNN'94 is the annual national meeting of the Australian 
neural network community. It is a multi-disciplinary 
meeting and seeks contributions from Neuroscientists, 
Engineers, Computer Scientists, Mathematicians, Physicists
and Psychologists.

ACNN'94 will feature an invited keynote speaker. The 
program will include presentations and poster sessions. 
Proceedings will be printed and distributed to the attendees.

   Keynote Speaker 
	Professor T Kohonen, Helsinki Technical University

   Call for Papers 

Papers on innovative applications of artificial neural 
networks and other research topics in ANNs are sought. 
Research topics of interest include, but not restricted to:

  Neuroscience: Integrative function of neural networks 
 	 in vision, audition, motor, somatosensory and 
	 autonomic functions. Synaptic function: Cellular 
	 information processing;

  Theory: Learning; Generalisation; Complexity; Scaling; 
	 Stability; Dynamics;

  Implementation: Hardware implementation of neural 
	 networks; Analog and digital VLSI implementation;
	 Optical implementation;

  Architecture and Learning Algorithms: New Architectures 
	 and learning algorithms; Hierarchy; Modularity; 
	 Learning pattern sequences; information integration;

  Cognitive Science and AI: Computational models of cognition 
	 and perception; Reasoning; Concept formation; 
	 Language acquisition; Neural network implementation 
	 of expert systems;

  Applications: Application of neural networks to signal 
	 processing and analysis; Pattern recognition; Speech, 
	 machine vision; Motor control; Robotics.

The conference will also include a poster stream which is 
designed as a forum for presentation of work in an environment
which will encourage informal discussions about methodologies 
and techniques. The posters will be displayed for a significant
period of time, and time will be allocated for authors to be 
present at their poster in the conference program.

Software demonstrations will be possible for authors who bring 
with them portable computers. The organizing committee will 
attempt to provide full-size compatible screens. Limited 
video facilities may be available.

As in previous years, there will be a special poster session for
postgraduate students.  All students are encouraged to present 
research issues and preliminary findings in this session. 

   Initial Submission of Papers 

As this is a multi-disciplinary meeting, papers are required 
to be comprehensible to an informed researcher outside the 
particular stream of the author in addition to the normal 
requirements of technical merit.

Papers should be submitted as close as possible to final 
form and must not exceed four A4 pages (2-column format). The 
first page should include the title and abstract, and should 
leave space for, but not include the authors' names and 
affiliations. A cover page should be supplied giving the 
title of the paper, the name, and affiliation of each author, 
together with the postal address, the electronic mail address, 
the phone number, and the fax number of a designated contact 
author. The type font should be no smaller than 10 point 
except in footnotes.  A serif font such as Times to New 
Century Schoolbook is preferred.

Four copies of the paper and the front cover should be supplied. 
This initial submission must be on hard copy to reach us by 
Friday, 17th September, 1993.

Each manuscript should clearly indicate submission category 
(from the six as listed) and author preference for oral or 
poster presentations.

Papers should be sent to:

Tracey Carney 
ACNN'94 Secretariat,  
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
University of Queensland 
St Lucia, Queensland 4072 
Australia.


Submission Deadlines

Friday, 17 September 1993   Deadline for receipt of paper submissions  
Friday 29th October 1993   Notification of acceptance/rejection  
Friday 10 December 1993   Final papers ready for camera-ready 
	form for printing  
Monday 24th January 1994 Deadline for receipt of Student Session 
	abstracts

Venue

University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia

ACNN'94 Organizing Committee 

General Chair   Ah Chung Tsoi (Univ of Queensland)  

Technical Chair  Tom Downs (Univ of Queensland)

Technical Committee    

  Yianni Attikouzel   (Univ of Western Aust)
  Peter Bartlett  (Aust National Univ)
  Robert Bogner  (Univ of Adelaide)
  Terry Caelli  (Univ of Melbourne)
  Max Coltheart  (Macquarie Univ)
  George Coghill (Univ of Auckland)
  Phil Diamond  (Univ of Queensland)
  Joachim Diederich   (Queensland Univ of Tech)
  Tom Downs  (Univ of Queensland)
  Simon Goss  (Def Scient & Tech Org)
  Graeme Halford  (Univ of Queensland)
  Richard Heath  (Univ of Newcastle)
  Michael Humphreys  (Univ of Queensland)
  Marwan Jabri  (Sydney Univ)
  Andrew Jennings  (Roayl Melb Inst of Tech)
  Bill Levick  (Aust National Univ)
  Adam Kowalczyk  (Telecom)
  Dennis Longstaff  (Univ of Queensland)
  D Nandagopal  (Def Scient & Tech Org)
  M Palaniswami  (Univ of Melbourne)
  Jack Pettigrew (Univ of Queensland)  
  Nick Redding  (Def Scient & Tech Org)
  Janet Wiles (Univ of Queensland)
  Robert Williamson  (Aust National Univ)

Local Committee (tentative)

	Andrew Back (Univ of Queensland)  
	Phil Diamond (Univ of Queensland)  
	Joachim Diederich (Queensland Univ of Tech)  
	Shlomo Geva (Queensland Univ of Tech)  
	Graeme Halford (Univ of Queensland)   
	Michael Humphreys (Univ of Queensland)  
	Brian Lovell (Univ of Queensland)   
	David Lovell (Univ of Queensland)  
	Mark Schulz (Univ of Queensland)   
	Joaquin Sitte (Queensland Univ of Tech)   
	Guy Smith (Univ of Queensland)    
	Janet Wiles (Univ of Queensland)   
	Robert Young (Queensland Dept of Primary Industries)   

Registration

The registration fee to attend ACNN'94 is:

Full Time Students  A $80  + $30 Late fee
Academics           A $200 + $50 Late fee
Other               A $275 + $75 Late fee

Late fees will apply to any registrations posted after
December 10th 1993.
To be eligible for the Full Time Student rate,
a letter from the Head of Department as verification
of enrolment is required.

Accommodation

Accommodation has been block booked at Emmanuel College 
University of Queensland. 

Copies of this brochure and registration forms are available from 
the Secretariat

Postgraduate Students Poster Session

Students are invited to submit research papers to the conference program
in the normal way.  However, there are many cases where preliminary work
is not in a suitable form for the main program, or is not complete by the
submission deadline.  Thus, as in past years, there will be a special
poster session for students.  The main aim of the session is to promote
interaction among students, and to give students a chance to present
their thesis research, and gain feedback from fellow students and
conference attendees.

All students are accepted for the session, and indeed, all are strongly
encouraged to participate.  To take part in the session, send 1-page
giving title of paper, name, affiliation, email address, and a
200-word abstract outlining the content of the poster, to Dr Janet Wiles
Department of Computer Science, University of Queensland, QLD 4072,
Australia, by Monday 24th January, 1994.  For questions regarding the
student session, write to the above address, or email janetw@cs.uq.oz.au
Note that abstracts for the student session are not referreed and will
not appear in the conference proceedings.





