File name:                 brain12.zip
Full Title:                The Brain V1.2
One line Description:      Neural Network simulator based on backpropagation.

Long description:

  Get ready to explore the exciting world of artificial intelligence.  
  The Brain is an advanced neural network simulator that is simple 
  enough to be used by non-technical people, yet sophisticated enough 
  for serious research work.  Based upon the backpropagation learning 
  algorithm, The Brain allows you to train the computer to learn what 
  you want it to learn.  The Brain gives you a glimpse into the future 
  of computing.

  With The Brain, you can create, train, and test your own neural 
  networks.  Three sample networks have been included with this 
  distribution package:
     - a network to recognise the numerals 1, 2, and 3.
     - a network to process the logical AND function.
     - a network to process the logical XOR function.

  The documentation included provides you with an introduction and 
  overview of the concepts and applications of neural networks as well 
  as outlining the features and capabilities of The Brain

Distribution:

  This package is released as shareware and may be freely distributed 
  and placed on any BBS, ftp site, shareware library etc.  Full 
  distribution details given in the file vendor.doc.

 
Uploader name & email:     David Perkovic (Uploaded by the author)
                           (dpc@mep.com   perkovic@cleese.apana.org.au)
Author or company:         David Perkovic (DP Computing)
Email address:             (dpc@mep.com   perkovic@cleese.apana.org.au)
Surface address:           PO Box 712
                           Noarlunga Center SA 5168
                           Australia
Special requirements:    
  The Brain requires 512K memory and MS-DOS or PC-DOS version 3.20 or 
  later (versions for other OS's and machines are available).  The 
  program can be run on an XT with one floppy drive but a 386 (with 
  maths coprocessor) or higher is required for serious use of The Brain.
  
Shareware payment required from private users: Yes
Shareware payment required from corporates:    Yes
Demo:                      Only restricted to number of units the network
                           can handle due to memory contraints on PC's.
                           Registered version allows use of extra memory.
Nagware:                   No
Self-documenting:          Yes
External documentation included: Yes  (39Kb, 20 Pages)
Source included:                 No   (Source comes with registration)
Size:                            77.5Kb zipped
10 lines description:

The Brain is an advanced neural network simulator that is simple 
enough to be used by non-technical people, yet sophisticated enough 
for serious research work.  Based upon the backpropagation learning 
algorithm, The Brain allows you to train the computer to learn what 
you want it to learn.  The Brain gives you a glimpse into the future 
of computing.

With The Brain, you can create, train, and test your own neural 
networks.  Three sample networks are included included.





