Central Neural System Electronic Bulletin Board 

Modem: 509-627-6267
Sysop: Wesley R. Elsberry
P.O. Box 1187
Richland, WA 99352

welsberr@sandbox.kenn.wa.us

Ways that you or your organization can help promote use of Central Neural System:
    - Send press releases, demonstration programs, shareware packages,
      descriptive text, tutorials, and source code for inclusion into the file
      base at CNS.
    - Make sure that others know that the resources at CNS are available.
      CNS is a good place for beginners to get a feel for the technology, so
      keep that in mind when students or colleagues need a quick introduc-
      tion to ANN concepts.  Word-of-mouth is still the best advertising.
    - Pass along information obtained from CNS.  CNS exists to promote
      communication among researchers and enthusiasts.  Do your part by
      extending the range where this information is available.

Reasons why you or your organization should sponsor Central Neural System:
    - CNS promotes an active interest in Artificial Neural Networks and
      related technology.  This means a larger market for products, a greater
      pool of students and potential employees, greater respect for the field,
      and greater knowledge among the general populace of what the field
      of Artificial Neural Networks is about.
    - CNS provides a place where one can expect that users will try out
      demonstration programs and read notices concerning ANN technology.
    - CNS is a stable point of contact for ANN and AI enthusiasts.  CNS has
      been online since early 1989, and there is no intention to change that
      in the foreseeable future.
    - CNS does not charge access fees, subscription fees, or other fees
      associated with normal use of the board.  This encourages users to
      spend more time online more often.
    - CNS is run by an ANN knowledgeable sysop.
    - CNS can provide a dedicated discussion area for your product or
      special interest.

Ways that you or your organization can sponsor Central Neural System BBS:
    - Contribute to the operating expenses of the BBS.  Currently, the
      system uses a single dedicated phone line.  The addition of more lines
      would enable concurrent use of CNS resources, enlarging the number
      of users that CNS can reasonably serve.  The addition of an WATS line
      would tremendously improve accessibility.
    - Contribute machinery or funds for machinery.  A dedicated computer
      would be most useful, and an 80286 based system would be quite
      adequate.  More hard disk space is needed for any significant increase
      in files kept online.  A high-speed modem compatible with the v.42 or
      v.32bis standards would enable more users to connect at high bps
      rates (the current modem is a 9600 bps USR Courier HST).  A basic
      Unix box would enable a direct link to appropriate newsgroups at CNS,
      which is not possible at present.  BBS support does not require the
      latest technology, so your surplus equipment is welcome here.


