From: HSCHUREN@tw.edu.cs.ccvax
Subject: Abstract Deadline for PACFoCoL
Reply-To: HSHUREN@tw.edu.cs.ccvax
Date: Sat, 8 May 1993 22:19 PDT

Pacific Asia Conference on Formal and Computational Linguistics
(PACFoCoL I, 1993)

Academic Activity Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan
August 30-31, 1993

Abstract Deadline (by email):  MAY 10 (MONDAY)

This is a reminder that the deadline for sumbitting an abstract for
PACFoCoL is upcoming.  PACFoCoL will provide an opportunity to
further the scholarly exchange among linguists in Pacific Asia
region in the areas of formal and computational linguistics and in
fostering a cooperative environment for better understanding of 
the development or new trend in theoretical and computational
linguistics in Pacific Asia region.

Topics of the conference include theoretical and computational
studies in syntax, semantic, corpus linguistics and contrastive
analysis of Pacific Asian languages.

The organizing committee welcomes submittance of one-page abstracts
(with an additional optional page for references and/or data) that
address the above topics.  The abstract may be submitted via e-mail
or via airmail.  The notice of abstract acceptance will be mailed
out by June 11, 1993.

All the accepted Papers will be collected in a volume of conference
proceedings.  The full paper should be camera-ready and not exceed
twelve (12) pages of A-4 or letter size paper (single-sided,
single-spaced, and at least 12 points in size, with at least 1"
margin on the right, at top, and 1.5" margin on the bottom).  The
deadline for the submission of the full paper and pre-registration
is June 28, 1993.  

Please address all the correspondences to the organizing committee
at the following address:  

Professor Chu-Ren Huang
ROCLING
c/o Institute of Information Science
Academia Sinica
Nankang, Taipei 115
Taiwan, R.O.C.

Tel: 886-2-788-1638
Fax: 886-2-788-1638

e-mail: churen@iis.sinica.edu.tw  OR  hschuren@ccvax.as.edu.tw
        nccut086@twnmoe10.bitnet (Professor Claire H. Chang)
        nccut146@twnmoe10.bitnet (Professor O.-S. Her)

Sponsored By:  The Computational Linguistics Society of R.O.C.
Co-Sponsored By:  
Institute of History and Philology, Academia Sinica
Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica
Department of English and Graduate Institute of Linguistics,
National Chengchi University
The Logico-Linguistics Society of Japan
The Linguistic Society of Hong Kong 
