     Number 36                                              March 93

                       The Huntington Technical Brief 
                          By David Brubaker Ph.D.

                       A FUZZY STATE MACHINE MODEL
                       ---------------------------

    
     TERMINOLOGY
      
     A state machine consists of a collection of states
     interconnected by transitions that are activated by 
     events. A system moves from its current state to its next
     state via a transition. Transitions are triggered by events,
     which are typically received asynchronously by the state machine 
     as inputs. The next system state is a function of the current 
     system state and the triggering event.
     
     Traditional state machines require that the system reside 
     fully in only one of its states at any given time. The occurrence 
     of an appropriate event will force a transition from the current 
     state to the next state. Two types of events are common, 
     absolute events with no associated data, called trigger events, 
     and those associated with data, called conditional events.
     
     A fuzzy state machine is an extension of a traditional state 
     machine, and consists of states in which the system can 
     partially reside. States themselves are crisp, more analogous to 
     points than sets, but the system can exist in a given state to 
     varying degrees. The degree to which a system resides in a 
     state shall be called the degree of being of that state, 
     represented by the symbol beta.
     
     Conditional events can be fuzzy. An event's degree of 
     fuzziness is the degree to which the associated condition is 
     true, and is represented by the truth value, mu.
     
     
     DESCRIPTION
      
     The primary differences between the fuzzy state machine model 
     being described and traditional state machines are that in the
     fuzzy state machine: 1) a system can reside in a state with 
     less than unity degree of being; and 2) a system can 
     simultaneously reside in more than one state so long as system
     "being" is conserved.
     
     For each executed transition, the degree of being of the 
     source state is reduced by the product of the source state's 
     degree of being and the truth value of the event. Because the 
     overall "being" of the system is conserved, the degree of being of 
     the destination state is the sum of its current value with this 
     same product.
     
     Fuzzy events can occur over several to many data sample 
     intervals, resulting in smooth transitions. Stronger events 
     cause faster inter-state transitions, and weaker events cause 
     slower inter-state transitions.
     
     
     EVENTS
      
     Trigger events carry an implicit truth value of 1. They are 
     crisp, are instantaneous, and a "partial occurrence" is not 
     allowed. When used in a fuzzy state machine, trigger events 
     cause complete transitions: the entire degree of being currently 
     in the source state is transferred to the destination state.
     
     Conditional events can be either crisp or fuzzy. In a crisp 
     state machine, the condition necessary for a transition is 
     stated in a true/false relational statement, as in "x = 3" or "x * 2 
     AND y * ", where x is a numeric variable. When the condition is 
     satisfied, the transition is executed.
     In a fuzzy state machine, the condition of a conditional event 
     is expressed as a fuzzy relational statement, for example 
     "DISTANCE is NEAR" or "DISTANCE is NEAR and SPEED is 
     SLOW". NEAR and SLOW are fuzzy values of the fuzzy variables 
     DISTANCE and SPEED, respectively. The degree to which the 
     expression is true is the truth value of the event, and when the 
     condition is evaluated with non-zero truth value, transition 
     processing is performed as described in the previous section.
     
     
     CONCLUSION
      
     We have discussed a new model for a fuzzy state machine, with 
     which the system can reside in system states with partial 
     strength, or degree of being. The model also allows multiple 
     states to be simultaneously active (to have non-zero degrees 
     of being) so long as the sum of all degrees of being remains 
     unity.
     
     A state machine is used to introduce sequence into a 
     system. A fuzzy state machine further allows smooth 
     transitions between states, thereby allowing smooth 
     transitions in the system parameters (outputs, for example) 
     controlled by the associated states.
     
     The model presented is not intended to be a totally general 
     structure, although it also is not restricted to any given 
     application. Rather, it is a practical, working state machine 
     with definite, clearly evident attributes.
     
     
     ----------------------------------------------------------------

     The Huntington Group provides technical consulting services in
     complex, real-time, embedded processor, and fuzzy system design.
     The Huntington Technical Brief, of which this is a much edited
     version, is a marketing tool, published once a month on fuzzy
     topics of interest - a yearly subscription costs $24 and
     back issues are available at $2.00 per issue. A report,
     "Introduction to Fuzzy Logic Systems" is also available for $50.
     For more information, call David Brubaker at 415-325-7554.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------
          
     
                  Copyright 1992 by The Huntington Group 
         883 Santa Cruz Avenue, Suite 31 Menlo Park, CA 94025-4608

                      This information is provided by
                             Aptronix FuzzyNet
                       408-428-1883 Data USR V.32bis

