From will@aristotle.ils.nwu.edu Fri Jul  8 19:04:42 EDT 1994
Article: 23012 of comp.ai
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:23012
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!news2.near.net!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!news.cac.psu.edu!news.pop.psu.edu!psuvax1!news.ecn.bgu.edu!anaxagoras.ils.nwu.edu!aristotle.ils.nwu.edu!will
From: will@aristotle.ils.nwu.edu (William Fitzgerald)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: Cyc: An annotated bibiography
Date: 7 Jul 1994 19:23:53 GMT
Organization: The Institute for the Learning Sciences
Lines: 168
Message-ID: <2vhko9$sc6@anaxagoras.ils.nwu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: aristotle.ils.nwu.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]

An annotated bibliography on the Cyc project.
Will Fitzgerald (will@ils.nwu.edu)
The Institute for the Learning Sciences

July, 1994

1984: The beginnings of Cyc.

Lenat, D., Prakash, M., & Shepard, M. (1986). CYC: Using 
common sense knowledge to overcome brittleness and knowledge 
acquisition bottlenecks. AI Magazine, 6(4), 65-85.

This is the original article introducing Cyc to the AI 
research community. It states that the overall goal of Cyc 
is the building, "over the coming decade, of a large 
knowledge base (or KB) of real world facts and heuristics 
and--as a part of the KB itself--methods for efficiently 
reasoning over the KB." The more specific goals and 
milestones include:

-	building a "documented, debugged representation 
language, adequate for representing the spectrum of 
material contained in--and assumed by--[a desk] 
encyclopedia."

-	building "an interface suitable for browsing and 
editing" Cyc

-	have Cyc be able to do analogical reasoning 

-	building representations of each type of knowledge 
required of a common sense reasoner.

-	building a system that a "cadre of lightly trained 
knowledge enterers" could use successfully.

-	building the representations underlying a desk 
encyclopedia--as a start to representing "the world's most 
general knowledge, down to ever more detailed levels."

-	building hooks to other AI programs.

1989: Cyc at the midpoint.

Guha, R. V., & Lenat, D.B. (1990). Cyc: A Midterm Report. AI 
Magazine, 11(3), 33-59.

Lenat, D. B., & Guha, R. V. (1990). Building Large Knowledge-
Based Systems: Representation and Inference in the Cyc 
Project. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Inc. 


Lenat, D. B., & Guha, R. V. (1991). Ideas for applying Cyc 
(Technical Report No. ACT-CYC-407-91). Microelectronics and 
Computer Technology Corporation.

The AI magazine article and the book present Cyc at midterm--
that is, five years after the beginning of the Cyc project. 
They describe the representation language they have 
developed, CycL, including the desiderata are for 
developing such a language, and why, for example, they no 
longer use numeric certainty factors. 

The also describe the top levels of their representations, 
such as stuff, things and events, time, scripts, causality 
and intentionality, intelligent beings, uncertainty, 
beliefs, space. 

They also (in the book) describe what Cyc's "final exam" 
will be in "late 1994." The goals are:

-	"To build an expert system in Cyc and show that it is 
better than building it from scratch.

-	"Build two expert systems in Cyc, on related topics, 
neither project knowing much about the other. Show that 
they can share each other knowledge productively.

-	"Communication with Cyc in English, by dint of a natural 
language understanding program.

-	"Demonstrate that, based on [the natural language 
interface], the Cyc project is no longer needed. The 
massive hand-coding knowledge representation effort can be 
wound down and eliminated by 1994.

-	"Demonstrate that Cyc can learn by discovery.

-	"Have Cyc be the major "consensus reality KB" for the 
world...we hope that by 1999 no one would even think about 
having a computer that doesn't have Cyc running on it."

Early 1990's: Cyc reviewed and refined.

Stefik, M. J., & Smoliar, S. W. (. (1993). The commonsense 
reviews. Artificial Intelligence, 61(1), 37-40.

This journal number contains reviews of Building Large 
Knowledge-Based Systems by Charles Elkan and Russell 
Greiner; Drew McDermott; Robert Neches; Douglas Skuce; and 
John Sowa, totaling over 60 pages. Guha and Lenat reply in 
a 25-page rebuttal.

Guha, R. V. (1990). Micro-theories and contexts in Cyc. Part 
I: Basic issues (Technical Report No. ACT-CYC-129-90). 
Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corporation.

This paper describes the major architectural difference 
between Cyc circa 1990 and Cyc circa 1994: adding 
"contexts" which limit the extent to which knowledge in the 
KB is believed true, and how to build interfaces among 
contexts.

1994: Ten years of Cyc.

Guha, R. V., & Lenat, D. B. (1994). Enabling agents to work 
together. Communications of the ACM, 37(7), 127-142.

This is a good entry point for reading about Cyc. It 
describes the state of the art, as well as giving a bit of
history.

In some ways, this is the final exam report on Cyc, but 
perhaps a report later in the year is due. It gives a brief 
historical overview of the Cyc project, and describes its 
state as of March 1994. In terms of the 1990 final exam 
goals:

-	Expert system goals: There was a car selection expert 
system built around 1990. Guha and Lenat see Cyc as being 
more likely to succeed in information management programs 
requiring "person modeling" or "information access," rather 
than expert systems,

-	All of the projects listed in this article are 
prototypes: smart data bases and spreadsheets, that can do 
consistency checking and inference; image retrieval (e.g., 
retrieving a image labeled "a girl is lying on the beach" 
with the query "show me images of people at risk of getting 
cancer."

-	Communicating with Cyc in English. This isn't happening. 
There is a section describing the state of their art, CNL 
(Cyc natural language system). A quotation: "we expect a 
sort of crossover to occur in the next two years, by which 
we mean that most of the knowledge entry will take place by 
semiautomatic NL understanding, with humans able to take 
the role of tutors rather than brain surgeons."

-	Learn by discovery: Guha and Lenat don't discuss this.

-	Cyc as the major consensus KB: The Cyc project still has 
seven major sponsors (Apple, Bellcore, DEC, the Department 
of Defense, Interval, Kodak and Microsoft). It's unclear 
how any of them are applying Cyc. A large number of AI 
researchers have been associated with Cyc, but it's unclear 
that (m)any of them are using Cyc as a common-sense KB.

But still Guha and Lenat say: "After almost a decade, the 
Cyc project is still on target..." with semiautomatic 
natural language understanding just around the corner, 
hardware costs plummeting to the point at which Cyc can run 
on standard low-end platforms (such as Sparc-10s and Mac 
IIs), and prototype applications available.

---
Opinions expressed above are my own, and do not necessarily refect
those of the Institute for the Learning Sciences or its partners


