From jmerelo@kal-el.ugr.es Tue Jul  5 17:21:53 EDT 1994
Article: 3399 of comp.ai.genetic
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai.genetic:3399
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!nntp.club.cc.cmu.edu!newsfeed.pitt.edu!gatech!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!yeshua.marcam.com!zip.eecs.umich.edu!umn.edu!zib-berlin.de!news.th-darmstadt.de!terra.wiwi.uni-frankfurt.de!zeus.rbi.informatik.uni-frankfurt.de!news.dfn.de!scsing.switch.ch!sun.rediris.es!obelix.cica.es!jmerelo
From: jmerelo@kal-el.ugr.es (J.J. Merelo Guervos)
Newsgroups: comp.ai.genetic
Subject: Announcing GAGS 0.91
Date: 1 Jul 1994 16:02:47 GMT
Organization: Grupo Geneura
Lines: 80
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2v1en7$b0l@obelix.cica.es>
NNTP-Posting-Host: kal-el.ugr.es



GAGS is a class library and genetic algorithms program generator. From
an user point of view, the only thing that needs to be done is to
write a fitness function in ANSI C or C++, and the apps generator
generates a function, sets up everything needed to run a genetic
algorithm, runs it, and if _gnuplot_ is available, plots fitness in a
window. You only need to answer some questions. The apps generator is
written in PERL, so that PERL must be in the system. GAGS is written
in C++. It is still an evolving product, and it can be considered in
beta stage, although it works. That's why I am keeping the <1 version number.

Some features:
-You can use any fitness function, including fitness function that
train from a file. GAGS apps generator recognizes them both.
-Selection procedures included: steady state, tournament, and roulette
wheel.
-Crossover is 2-point. Uniform crossover is also supported in the
library, but the apps generator does not know about it.
-Mutation is bit-flip, with user-supplied frequency. Other operators,
like gene duplication or elimination, and gene transposition, are also
included in the library, but not in the apps generator. 
-Best fitness and individual are printed on STDOUT or to a file.
-Most GA parameters are inside a configuration file, so that different
operators and frequencies can be tested on a fitness function. Only
the fitness function and the output options are fixed, once the
program has been generated and compiled.
-It has been tested in Sun and SGI Indigo workstations, using GNU's
g++. 

Some un-features:
-I am still working on the programmer's manual. I will try to release
it before the end of July. 

Some improvements since version 0.9
-The apps generator plainly didn't work, except on the example
programs. I have fixed all detected problems, and included more
example fitness functions.
-It didn't behave very graciously when gnuplot was not present. Now it
just forgets about it.
-The class library has been redesigned, mainly in appearance, so that
it is more easily comprensible to the uninitiated. The chromosome
class hierarchy has an uniform interface.
-Some functions have been added, like transpose and tournament
selection.
-The user's manual has been improved, including some undocumented features.
-An "integer genome" class has been added; the application generator
does not use it, however.
-The installation procedure has been streamlined. Now it is basically
configure, make, edit Makefile, make install, make demos and you're
done. It gives more informative error messages, too.
-It compiles in MS-DOG, although I don't include any configuration
utilities for it. Gnuplot, of course, cannot be used, since the UNIX
program uses pipes.

GAGS 0.91 is available at the same place than before,
kal-el.ugr.es:/pub/GAGS-0.91.tar.gz. 
That means that you need GNU's gunzip to uncompress it.

You can also use your favorite mail server to request the file
gags-0.91.uu
which is uu-encoded. Just in case your relations with your closest
mail server are rather cold, use kal-el mail server. Write to
ftpmail@kal-el.ugr.es
and inside the _body_ of the letter, write
open
get gags-0.91.uu
close

I'll be next week in Cambridge, MA, USA, from July 6 to July 8,
attending Alife IV conference. If you have some
doubt/encouragement/rantings I'll be there to receive them. Of course, I'll be
also available at the e-mail address jmerelo@kal-el.ugr.es

				JJ


-- 
JJ Merelo
Grupo Geneura ---- Univ. Granada


