From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!asuvax!ncar!noao!CS.Arizona.EDU!arizona.edu!mojave.ece.arizona.edu!jdc Thu Aug  5 13:45:13 EDT 1993
Article: 18210 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18210
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!asuvax!ncar!noao!CS.Arizona.EDU!arizona.edu!mojave.ece.arizona.edu!jdc
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: Call for Tutorial Proposals for IPCCC '94
Message-ID: <1993Aug4.165019.4692@arizona.edu>
From: jdc@mojave.ece.arizona.edu (Jo Dale Carothers)
Date: 4 Aug 93 16:50:18 MST
Distribution: world,local
Organization: U of Arizona Electrical and Computer Engineeering
Nntp-Posting-Host: mojave.ece.arizona.edu
Lines: 56


	Thirteenth Annual IEEE International Phoenix Conference on 
	     Computers and Communications --- IPCCC '94
		          April, 1994
            	        Phoenix, Arizona

	Guidelines for Advanced Technology Seminar Proposals


Proposals for one-day and half-day seminars related to the conference
topics are invited.  Proposals should be received by September 1, 1993.
Please include the following in your submission.

1.  Brief summary of the proposed seminar, suitable for publication in
    the conference program

2.  1--2 page detailed outline of the topics to be covered

3.  Description of the intended audience along with objectives for the
    seminar

4.  Brief biography for the presenter that is
    suitable for publication in the conference program

5.  Description of any special equipment that is required  (indicate
    whether this equipment must be provided by the conference or if it will be
    provided by the presenter)

6.  Any additional information that further describes the
    appropriateness and benefit of the proposed seminar

Areas of interest include, but are not limited to computer technology
(parallel processing, multimedia, fault tolerance, distributed systems,
VLSI), communications technology (fiber optics, satellite/terrestrial
systems, wireless communications), software systems (object-oriented
design, distributed operating systems, performance evaluations, graphics
and visualization, software development environments, software
re-engineering, etc.), networking systems (network services, netwrok
technologies, open systems networking, protocols, control and security,
architecture, applications) and strategic impact (information security,
transition to open systems, globalization, technology management, impact of
communication and information resources in business decision making)

If you have any questions or would like further information, please
contact the Advanced Technology Chair:

		Dr. Jo Dale Carothers
		Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering
		The University of Arizona
		Tucson, AZ   85721

		Telephone:  (602) 621-8733
		FAX: (602) 621-8076
		E-mail:  carothers@ece.arizona.edu




