
                         Conference Report:

           The Ninth Conference on Artificial Intelligence
                     for Applications (CAIA '93)
                   Orlando, Florida, 2/28-3/5, 1993

              Peter G. Selfridge, AT&T Bell Laboratories

(Note: this report will appear in IEEE Expert  Magazine,  June,  1993.
Currently,   copyright   for   this   report  is  held  by  AT&T  Bell
Laboratories.)

The Ninth Conference on Artificial Intelligence for Applications (CAIA
'93) was held at The Disney Yacht Club Resort, Disney World,  Orlando,
Florida, February 28 through March 5, 1993.  The setting was terrific:
not only is the Yacht Club an excellent hotel and conference facility,
but the weather cooperated and Disney World location gave attendees  a
plethora  of  activies  after  (and sometimes during!) the conference.
This year's call-for-papers attracted 215 submission (a big jump  over
last  year's  145),  and 80 papers were accepted: 61 (or 28 percent of
those submitted) as full papers  and  19  (or  9  percent)  as  poster
session  papers.  This  year's  conference  had  strong  international
representation. Accepted papers and posters come  from  15  countries:
nine  from  Canada, six from Germany, three from Japan (one coauthored
with a US collaborator), three from France, two each from Scotland and
Italy,  and  one each from England, India, Portugal, China, Australia,
Austria, Singapore, and Mexico. The rest (47)  came  from  the  United
States.

The conference started with two days of Tutorials and Workshops. There
were  eight  tutorials,  ranging  in  topic  from  AI  and Business to
Qualitative Reasoning to Intelligent User Interfaces. 102 people  took
these  tutorials  and  they  were  well  received.   The  Workshop  on
Validation  and   Verification   of   Intelligent   Systems   featured
presentations  by  speakers  including  Robert  Plant, Alun Preece and
Daniel O'Leary. These presentations  focused  on  specific  issues  in
V&V,  including  life  cycle  impact  on V&V, methodologies for system
development including V&V, the use of metaknowledge in V&V, systematic
determination of knowledge base anomolies and the statistical analysis
of expert systems.  A round table discussion of different applications
followed  the  presentations.   The  V&V  of a number of applications,
including the "Pilot's Associate" and some of  its  derivatives,  were
discussed.

The second workshop was a meeting of the IEEE P1252  Standards  Group,
whose  charter  is  to  propose a Frame Based Knowledge Representation
standard.  Topics discussed included the semantics of various  aspects
of  the  proposed  standard  (such  as  system  defined  frames,  slot
attachment, and enumeration functions), validation of knowledge bases,
detecting  inheritance conflicts, and what aspects of a knowledge base
are modifiable after  the  initial  definition.  This  is  an  ongoing
activity.

The technical program started with an invited plenary address by Wendy
Lehnert   of   the   Computer   Science   Department,   University  of
Massachusetts, Amherst,  Mass.  The  title  of  the  presentation  was
"Portability  and Scalability for Information Extraction Systems." She
described the  evolution  of  Natural  Language  research  from  basic
research  and  demonstration systems to problem-oriented research with
an emphasis on evaluation and portability.  This  change  in  emphasis
has  been  accomplished  in part by priorities of funding agencies and
the availability of common problem sets with  agreed  upon  input  and
output.  This  allows  different  groups of researchers to work on the
same problems and compare results. Dr. Lehnert concluded her  talk  by
listing   five  new  directions  of  natural  language  research:  (1)
applications must stimulate basic  research,  (2)  domain  portability
through training, (3) automated knowledge acquisition, (4) put a human
in the loop, and  (5)  hybrid  systems.  In  response  to  a  audience
question,  Dr.  Lehnert  described  the "weakest link" in this kind of
work as that of  discourse  analysis,  or  the  analysis  of  multiple
sentences.

At the  Wednesday  banquet  (surprisingly  good  food  and  very  well
attended) there were two special events.  The first was the acceptance
of the Emanual  R.  Piore  Award,  an  IEEE  award  for  long-standing
applications-oriented research, to Dr. Makoto Nagao, Kyoto University,
Kyoto, Japan. This award comes with a handsome plaque and  a  generous
honorarium,  and Dr. Nagao chose the Conference on AI for Applications
as the IEEE conference for accepting this award. Dr.  Nagao  discussed
his  research  into  global  approaches  to Natural Language and Image
analysis on  Thursday.  Second,  Oliver  Selfridge,  of  GTE  Research
Laboratories, Waltham, Massachusetts, gave the banquet speech entitled
"AI and the Future of Software". His  controversial  message  is  that
computer  science  and  artificial  intelligence  should  take  a  new
approach to software. Instead of trying to do everything at the  level
of  specifications, and then transform these specifications into code,
the community ought to acknowledge that specifications will always  be
ambiguous,  incomplete, and, most important, will change. This implies
that software should be written with change  in  mind,  and  that  the
types   of   change  software  undergoes  should  be  extensively  and
empirically studied.  If we do that,  Dr.  Selfridge  argued,  we  can
begin  to  design software to change and can begin to build evaluation
into the programs themselves. Then we  can  begin  to  understand  and
build truly adaptive, intelligent software systems.

Two other invited talks were part of CAIA '93. Patrick Winston, of the
MIT  AI  Laboratory,  gave a talk on his experiences in business.  One
message of his talk was that in a commercial product,  the  amount  of
actual  AI  technology tends to shrink far beyond expectations, and in
some cases, vanishes. This mirrors other people's experiences  in  the
amount of work necessary to turn a demonstration system into something
closer to a product - that amount of work is much more than it took to
build  the  prototype!  Dr.  Frank  Mayadas,  of  the  Alfred T. Sloan
Foundation, gave an assessment of computer technology.  In  his  view,
the  extraordinary  pace  of  improvements in processing power, memory
capacity, and the like, are beginning to slow. The  biggest  challenge
by  far,  he  claimed,  is  now to explore and develop new application
areas for our technology. This, of course, was an appropriate  message
for the Conference on AI for Applications!

The bulk of the conference was, of course, paper sessions and  panels.
The  papers  covered  a  large  number  of  topic areas, from parallel
processing  to  case-based  reasoning,  constraint  satisfaction,  and
genetic  algorithms.   Two  papers  received  Best  Paper awards: Amir
Hekmatpour, of IBM and also a student at UCSD, and  Charles  Elkan,  a
professor  at  UCSD,  for their paper "Categorization-Based Diagnostic
Problem Solving in the VLSI Design Domain", and Leonard A. Hermens,  a
student  at  Washington  State University, and Jeffrey C. Schlimmer, a
professor at WSU, for their paper "A Machine-Learning  Apprentice  for
the  Completion  of  Repetitive Forms".  Panel presentations were very
popular, and included a panel on  statistical  approaches  to  natural
language,  evaluation  AI  applications,  AI  on  Wall  Street, AI for
Manufacturing,  Organizational  Memory,  Applications  of   Case-Based
Reasoning, and Massifely Parallel AI.

The success of CAIA-93 was the result of many  people's  efforts.  Jan
Aikins,  of  Trinzic  Corporation,  provided  terrific  leadership and
planning for the conference. Dave Waltz, as Program Chair, did a great
job,  especially  during  the  final  program  committee meeting.  His
colleauge at Thinking Machines, Craig Stanfill, did  a  fantastic  job
standing  in  for  Dave  during an illness. Peter Selfridge, AT&T Bell
Laboratories and Don McKay, of Paramax, worked hard to put together  a
successful  tutorial  and  workshop  program. Curt Hall of Intelligent
Software Strategies and Doug Dankel of the University of  Florida  did
excellent  jobs  at  Publicity  and  Local Arrangements, respectively.
People at the IEEE  office,  especially  Nancy  Wise,  Janet  Harward,
Phyllis  Walker,  and  John  Mee, worked hard at many logistic details
crucial to  the  success  of  CAIA-93.  Dari  Whitehouse  of  Thinking
Machines   also  handled  many  administrative  details.  The  program
committee members reviewed all the  papers  and  made  many  difficult
decisions.  Finally,  the success of a conference like this ultimately
rests on those people submitting papers and  agreeing  to  be  outside
reviewers, invited speakers, and panel members. Thank you all!

This brings us to next year's conference, which will be  held  at  the
Marriot  Riverwalk in San Antonio, Texas. Dan O'Leary, of the Business
School at the University of Southern California will be the Conference
Chair,  and  Peter  Selfridge  of  AT&T Bell Laboratories, will be the
Program Chair. Dan and I are contemplating a number of changes in  the
Conference  on  AI  for  Applications.  We  want  to  ensure that this
Conference remains attractive to a wide  and  diverse  audience,  from
government  to acedemia to industry. To do this, we are formulating an
integrative theme for the conference that will emphasize that while AI
is  but  one  component  of a complete application, it can be the most
important technical component and the true "market differentiator". We
hope the theme will both widen the scope of the conference and help us
in the AI and applications community sharpen our focus  on  the  exact
role   of  AI  in  applications,  and  the  role  of  AI  research  in
applications endeavors.

Dan and I are also committed to a number of structural changes in  the
conference  to  make  it more efficient. While these changes are still
being decided, it is probable that the conference  will  be  shortened
from  5  days  to  4,  and  we are exploring various options including
integrating tutorials  into  the  technical  program,  having  evening
sessions,  including  demonstration  tracks,  and trying to facilitate
more direct and active participation among the audience and  speakers.
Of  course,  a  successful  conference  of this kind must also include
outstanding plenary addresses and panels  and,  last  but  not  least,
attractive  social  events.  If  you have any ideas or suggestions for
events, panels, workshops, tutorials, or are interested in  submitting
a  paper,  the  due  date  is  August  31, 1993. For more information,
contact CAIA '94, IEEE Computer Society, 1730 Massachusetts Avenue NW,
Washington,  DC  20036, or call 202-371-1013. Alternatively, feel free
to contact me, Peter Selfridge, at AT&T Bell  Laboratories,  Room  2B-
425,  600 Mountain Avenue, Murray Hill, NJ, 07974, phone 908-582-6801,
email pgs@research.att.com.


.
