Return-Path: <@edrc.cmu.edu:pgs@research.att.com>
Received: from EDRC.CMU.EDU by A.GP.CS.CMU.EDU id ab04823;
          23 Jul 93 17:15:41 EDT
Received: from research.att.com by EDRC.CMU.EDU id aa07495;
          23 Jul 93 17:14:54 EDT
Received: by inet; Fri Jul 23 17:07 EDT 1993
Received: by hunny.research.att.com (/\==/\ Smail3.1.25.1 #25.11)
	id <m0oJULb-000CmuC@hunny.research.att.com>; Fri, 23 Jul 93 17:08 EDT
Received: by bobcat.research.att.com (/\==/\ Smail3.1.25.1 #25.1)
	id <m0oJULZ-000JDGC@bobcat.research.att.com>; Fri, 23 Jul 93 17:08 EDT
Message-Id: <m0oJULZ-000JDGC@bobcat.research.att.com>
Date: Fri, 23 Jul 93 17:08 EDT
From: pgs@research.att.com (Peter G. Selfridge)
To: mkant@cs.cmu.edu
Subject: call-for-papers for the CMU AI Repository




                                   CALL FOR PAPERS

                                       CAIA-94
       The Tenth IEEE Conference on Artificial Intelligence for Applications:

                        Developing Enabling Technologies and
                      Integrating AI into Application Solutions

                       Marriott Riverwalk - San Antonio, Texas
                                   March 1-4, 1994


     Increasingly, the role of AI in business  and  scientific  applications  is
     that  of  one  component in a complex system. Integrating AI with knowledge
     sources and  databases,  user  interfaces,  and  existing  software  is  an
     important aspect of advancing the application of AI to real world problems.
     This year's conference will emphasize both the development of  enabling  AI
     technology  and  the  issues involved in the integration of this technology
     into products and processes. We are also seeking innovative ideas  for  new
     application  areas  and new research and technology transfer paradigms. Our
     goal is to  increase  interaction  between  different  communities  and  to
     increase  our  understanding  of  how AI technology can be applied to real-
     world problems.

     With these goals in mind, two general  kinds  of  papers  are  appropriate.
     First  are  case  studies of AI applications that address significant real-
     world problems.  These papers must (1) justify the use of the AI technique,
     based  on  the problem and application requirements, (2) explain how the AI
     technology contributed to  the  solution  and  was  integrated  with  other
     components, and (3) describe the status of the implementation.

     Second are papers on novel AI techniques and  principles  that  may  enable
     more  ambitious  real-world  applications.  All  the  usual  AI  topics are
     appropriate. These papers must (1) describe the importance of the  approach
     from an applications context, (2) describe the work in sufficient technical
     detail and clarity, (3) clearly and thoroughly differentiate the work  from
     previous efforts.

     While finished work is important, one major role for this conference is  as
     a  forum  for  exchanging  ideas.  For this reason, well-written reports on
     work-in-progress and descriptions of innovative partial implementations are
     encouraged.  In  fact,  we  hope  to  structure  CAIA-94 in several ways to
     facilitate communication between researchers and practitioners.  First,  we
     will  include  invited  speakers  on  various  appropriate  topics, of both
     technical and more general scope. Second, panel sessions are very important
     in  an inter-disciplinary area and will be a key feature of CAIA-94. Third,
     CAIA will include a mix of introductory and advanced tutorials and a  small
     workshop  program  oriented  towards  wide participation. Other, more novel
     forums such as evening discussion sessions may be tried.

     Papers should be limited to 5000 words and papers significantly longer that
     this  will not be reviewed. Accepted papers will be allotted seven pages in
     the conference proceedings, and the best papers will be  considered  for  a
     special  issue  of  IEEE  Expert  to  appear  late  in 1994. Awards will be
     presented to the best paper and best student paper at the conference.

     The first page of the paper must contain the following  information  (where
     applicable) in the order shown:

     * Title.
     * Author's name and affiliation (specify student status).
     * Contact information (name, postal address, phone and email address).
     * Abstract: A 200 word abstract that includes a clear statement  describing
       the paper's original contributions and what new lesson is imparted.
     * AI topic: One or more  terms  describing  the  relevant  AI  areas,  e.g.
       knowledge acquisition, explanation, diagnosis, etc.
     * Domain area: One or more terms describing the problem domain  area,  e.g.
       mechanical design, factory scheduling, education, medicine, etc.
     * Language/Tool: Underlying programming languages, systems and tools used.
     * Status: Development and deployment status, as appropriate.
     * Effort: Person-years of effort put into developing the particular  aspect
       of the project being described.
     * Impact: A 20 word description of estimated or measured (specify)  benefit
       of the application developed.

     In addition to  papers,  we  will  be  accepting  the  following  types  of
     submissions:

     * Proposals for Panel Discussions. Provide a brief description of the topic
       (1000  words  or less). Indicate appropriateness for this conference, the
       membership  of  the  panel  and  interest  in  organizing/moderating  the
       discussion.

     * Proposals for Tutorial Presentations. Proposals for three hour  tutorials
       of  both  an  introductory  and advanced nature are requested.  Tutorials
       which analyze classes of applications  in  depth  or  examine  techniques
       appropriate  for  a  particular  class  of applications are of particular
       interest. Include a detailed topic outline, a half-page synopsis  of  the
       focus,   topics,  a  list  of  benefits  to  the  audience,  and  a  full
       professional vita.

     * Proposals for Workshops. Proposals are sought for one day workshops to be
       held  in  conjunction  with  the conference. These workshops should avoid
       having too narrow a scope (such  as  "AI  in  Radiology");  rather,  they
       should  be  designed  to  foster  communication  between both experts and
       interested  newcomers  about  a  broad  application  area  (for  example,
       "Applications  of  AI to Software") or address a concern that covers many
       applications (for example, "Issues in Technology  Transfer").  Include  a
       one-page description of the workshop and a small organizing committee.


     Important Dates

     * August 31, 1993: Four copies of papers, and three  copies  of  all  other
       proposals  are  due  to the program chair at the address listed below (no
       electronic submissions).

     * October 15, 1993: Author notifications mailed.

     * December 14, 1993: Accepted papers and tutorial notes due to IEEE.

     * March 1, 1994: Conference tutorial program and workshops.

     * March 1-4, 1994: Conference technical program.

     Submit Papers and all Proposals to:
       Peter G. Selfridge
       AT&T Bell Laboratories
       Room 2B-425
       600 Mountain Avenue
       Murray Hill, NJ 07974
       Phone:  908-582-6801, fax -7550
       Email:  pgs@research.att.com

     For registration and additional conference information, contact:
       CAIA-94
       IEEE Computer Society
       1730 Massachusetts Avenue, NW
       Washington, DC  20036-1903
       Phone:  202-371-1013

     General Chair:
       Dan O'Leary, University of Southern California

     Program Chair:
       Peter G. Selfridge, AT&T Bell Laboratories

     Publicity Chair:
       Marc Goodman, Cognitive Systems and Brandeis University

     Local Arrangements Chair:
       Aaron Konstam, Trinity University

     Program Committee
       Jan Aikins                      Trinzic Corporation
       Chid Apte                       IBM
       Larry Birnbaum                  Northwestern University
       Ron Brachman                    AT&T
       Mark Burstein                   BBN
       Dan Cooke                       U. Texas El Paso
       Vasant Dhar                     NYU
       Tim Finin                       U. Maryland Baltimore County
       Phil Hayes                      Carnegie Group
       Jim Hendler                     U. Maryland
       Haym Hirsh                      Rutgers
       Lou Hoebel                      Rome Laboratory, USAF
       Se June Hong                    IBM
       Lewis Johnson                   USC/ISI
       Bernadette Kowalski-Minton      Academic Systems Corp.
       Larry Lefkowitz                 Bellcore
       Don McKay                       Paramax
       Robert Milne                    Intelligent Applications Ltd.
       Fumio Mizoguchi                 Tokyo Science University
       Charles Petrie                  MCC
       David Redmiles                  UC Boulder
       Anil Rewari                     DEC
       Marcio Rillo                    University of San Paulo, Brazil
       Eric Schoen                     Schlumberger
       Evangelos Simoudis              Lockheed
       Bob Simpson                     NCR
       Elliot Soloway                  U. Michigan
       Craig Stanfill                  Thinking Machines
       Loren Terveen                   AT&T
       Oliver Vadas                    Pulp and Paper Research Institute of Canada
       Wolfgang Wahlster               DFKI
       David Waltz                     Thinking Machines and Brandeis U.
       John Yen                        Texas A&M University

     General  information  on  CAIA-94,  including  this  Call  for  Papers,  is
     available electronically.  Send email to CAIA@CS.UMBC.EDU or try the Gopher
     server on GOPHER.CS.UMBC.EDU for a description of what is available and how
     to  retrieve.   For  more  information  or  clarification, contact the IEEE
     Computer Society or the Program Chair at the addresses above.
