		The Consortium for Lexical Research (CLR)


		      Rio Grande Research Corridor
		      Computing Research Laboratory
		      New Mexico State University
 	      	    Box 30001, Las Cruces, NM 88003




			  lexical@crl.nmsu.edu
			   (505) 646-5466
			Fax: (505) 646-6218


Work in computational linguistics has reached the point where the
performance of many natural language processing systems is limited by
a ``lexical bottleneck''.  That is, such systems could handle much more
text and produce much more impressive application results were it not
for the fact that their lexicons are too small.

The Association for Computational Linguistics proposed that a
Consortium for Lexical Research (CLR) be established, with funding
from DARPA.  The CLR was set up in July of 1991 and is sited at the
Computing Research Laboratory, New Mexico, USA, under its Director,
Yorick Wilks, Associate Director Louise Guthrie, and an ACL committee
consisting of Roy Byrd, Ralph Grishman, Mark Liberman and Don Walker

Any individual or organization wishing to make initial contact with
the CLR and review its procedures, holdings, agreements etc. should
send email to the address above (or write to the mailing address or
fax).


OBJECTIVE

The objective of the Consortium for Lexical Research is to act as a
clearing house, in the US and internationally, for lexical data and
software.  It shares lexical data and tools used to perform research
on machine-readable dictionaries and lexicons, as well as
communicating the results of that research, thus accelerating the
scale and speed of the development of natural language understanding
programs via standard lexicons and software.

A basic premise of the proposal for cooperation on lexical research is
that the research must be ``precompetitive''.  That is, the CLR does not
have as its goal the creation of commercial products.  The goal of
precompetitive research is to augment our understanding of what
lexicons contain and, specifically, to build computational lexicons
having those contents. Members of the Consortium contribute to a
repository and withdraw resources from it in order to perform their
research.  There is no requirement that withdrawals be compensated by
contributions in kind. Members are charged an annual fee to help
support the cost of running the CLR.

The task of the CLR is primarily to facilitate research, making
available to the whole natural language processing community certain
resources now held only by a few groups that have special
relationships with companies or dictionary publishers. There is also
an underlying theoretical assumption or hope: that the contents of
major lexicons are very similar, and that some neutral, or
``polytheoretic,'' form of the information they contain can be at
least a research goal, and would be a great boon if it could be
achieved.  The CLR as far as is practically possible accepts
contributions from any source, regardless of theoretical orientation,
and makes them available as widely as possible for research.

APPROACH

We have set up publicity networks to attract interested donors of
materials and members. From there we have defined agreements for
donors and members, a fee structure and set up computer networking
facilities to carry out donations and withdrawls of materials.

A major activity of the CLR is to negotiate agreements with
``providers'' on reassuring and advantageous terms to both suppliers
and researchers. Major funders of work in this area in the US have
indicated interest in making participation in the CLR a condition for
financial support of research.

CLR RESOURCES AND SERVICES

The Computing Research Lab (CRL) has a range of machines appropriate
for advanced computing on dictionaries (including the construction of
large-scale matrices): DARPA-supported access to a Connection Machine,
and a Sequent Symmetry, and an IBM-ACE parallel machine, as well as
network of UNIX workstations. The Consortium has access to an
appropriate range of large-scale storage machines, and capacities for
accepting and providing materials by network, tape and CD.

The CLR archives include two main areas: a public area and one for
members only.  These are the repository for such lexical items as word
lists; published dictionaries; specialized terminology; statistical
data; synonyms, antonyms, hypernym, pertainyms,etc.; and phrase lists.
They also include tools for lexical data base management, lexical
query, text analysis, dictionary encoding, and dictionary definition
sense taggers.

Repository management involves cataloging and storing material in
disparate formats, and providing for their retransmission (with
conversion, where appropriate tools exist).  In addition, a library of
documentation describing the repository's contents and containing
research papers resulting from projects that use the material is
maintained.  A brief description of the services provided is as
follows:

a.  CLR provides a catalog of, and acts as a clearinghouse for,
    utilities programs which have been written for existing online
    lexical data. 

b.  It also provides information for access to repositories of
    corpus-manipulation tools held elsewhere. 

c. CLR compiles a list of known mistakes, misprints, etc. that
   occur in each of the major published sources (dictionaries etc.).  

d. CRL distributes a monthly newsletter highlighting materials available in
   the consortium's archives.


PROGRESS

Progress during the year has been achieved in the three areas that
correspond to these data bases:
 
 
	. Building the contact base
 
	. Finalizing, membership  provider agreements 
 
	. Setting up the online database archives of the consortium

 
Building the contact base has entailed publicizing the Consortium and
its purposes to the research community.  A list of addresses was
compiled.  Printed and email announcements were composed and
distributed, with an email address for responses.  The announcement
was posted in relevant newsletters and journals.  To date there have
been three large-scale mailouts.
 
Response has been enthusiastic and continuous.  Conference
presentations and personal contacts concerning the Consortium have
included ACH/ALLC and others, in the US, Europe, Japan, and elsewhere.
Particular attention has been directed to reaching core researchers,
building the current mailing list to over 500.
 
The mail directed to lexical@nmsu.edu or to the Consortium staff
themselves has been answered individually, with queries about what
the people are interested in and what they might like to contribute
to the archives.  The responses indicate that there is a great
variety of lexically related software needed and available.  
 
Setting up procedures for the receiving of materials and their legal
protections has led to formulation of drafts and membership and
provider agreements.   The agreements have been finalized and legally
approved at NMSU and memberships have been accepted (see below).  The
major problem which has meant an enormous amount of negotiation with
major publishers, has been creating a general form of provider
agreement that captures the interests of the major dictionary
publishers in a  general  way, not tailored to each.  As we report
below, there has been substantial progress.
 
Facilities for receiving and providing archival materials have also
been set up.  The directories and file transfer procedures are in
place.  Besides online access and deposit of materials, tape and
diskette have been anticipated, all in a number of formats.  
Heavy security has been set up for heavily encumbered
materials.
 
Software for handling and classifying correspondence has been written
which will permit cross-classification and sorting of member entries
to match user needs and user offerings.  Written in-house reports of
CLR operations have been made regularly.  Other software which will
enable handling of materials in varied scripts is also under
development, so that materials with a variety of orthographies can be
transmitted, etc. (Scripts incl. Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Cyrillic,
some Indic, and other scripts.  This is an item of current interest in
the lexical research community.)
 
One of the goals of the Consortium is to make electronic versions of
dictionaries and thesauri available within the research community, and
discussions and visits have continued with Oxford University Press,
Collins Publishers, and Longman Group Limited.  In brief, we now have
arrangements with Harper-Collins which facilitate the purchase of
their machine readable dictionaries by members. We expect to reach
that stage soon with Longmans and Oxford.  All this has been slower
than we hoped.  As these negotiations are in final stages, we are
turning to the major US publishers.
 
Materials in the CLR archives are secured by a ``protection in depth''
scheme.  On the most public level, freely distributable materials are
available via anonymous ftp.  We maintain only a log of recent
contacts for these materials.  For the protection of lightly
encumbered materials, we provide members of the Consortium with
individual ftp accounts by which they can access archived material.
These materials are kept separate from the publicly accessible
materials, and are protected by standard ftp accounting and permission
software.  These accounts are only valid for ftp transfer, and their
passwords are changed regularly by the Consortium.
 
On the highest level of security, members who have received permission
from the supplier of heavily encumbered material are given a special
temporary ftp account which allows them access to encrypted versions
of the heavily encumbered material.  To obtain the material illegally,
not only would the normal file permissions scheme have to be
subverted, but a highly secure cryptographic system must be defeated.
As an additional security measure, the files are periodically
re-encrypted with freshly generated random passwords.  At no time is
an unencrypted version of the material stored in the ftp accessible
archives.

CLR is now the center of distribution of the data required by
participants in the Fifth Message Understanding Conference (MUC-5).
These research groups are all working on Information Extraction from
actual texts.  The performance of their systems will be evaluated in
August 1993.   CLR's facilities provided a secure and carefully
monitored means of distributing the large volumes of data, such as
gazetteers, rules, training texts, etc., required to build the IE
systems.

The Consortium for Lexical Research currently has in its public
archives contributions of 145 different packages for lexical use.  Of
these 145, eighty are restricted to MUC-5, eleven are restricted to
``members-only'' (lightly encumbered) access and the remainder are
available to anyone (unencumbered). We have placed in the heavily
encumbered category of the archive a recent version of the Alvey
tools.  JUMAN, the segmenter and part-of-speech tagger for Japanese
and the Xerox part-of-speech tagger have both been placed in the
lightly encumbered category, for members-only access.  The materials
in the MUC-5 area include a database and tools for assessing the
message understanding software designed and used by MUC members.

Contributions include thesauri (Roget's Thesaurus and WordNet),
dictionaries (Collins English-Spanish Bilingual Dictionary and Longman's
Dictionary of Contemporary English), wordlists (Gazetteer, Proper
Names, and the Standard Industrial Classification Manual), technical
reports (all software and lexica include technical reports relevant to
the materials being investigated), morphological analyzers (ENGLEX),
lexical parsers (SGML parser for text processing), typesetting
software (Indian, Arabic, Korean, Vietnamese, Japanese, Chinese and
Tibetan fonts), dictionary interface tools (BYU's Morphogen), text
analyzers (Interlinear text processor from SIL), and a phonological
programming language.

Approximately 50 other contributions are in various stages of
negotiations at this time, including the text of German, Greek, and
Latin Vulgate Bibles, the American Heritage Dictionary, POPX, a
Russian-English dictionary of political terms, and a large Chinese-English
dictionary.
 
The CLR currently has 48 member organizations which include 22
domestic universities, 4 foreign universities, 8 government agencies
and 18 commercial companies(including Apple, Microsoft, Xerox).
MUC-5 participants have all joined the CLR, providing valuable
software and materials. Currently 4 more memberships are pending
signature by NMSU and 8 organizations have indicated that they would
like to join, but we have not yet received membership agreements from
them.
 
Our most recent and major events are two workshops.  The first was a
CLR workshop in January of 1992 which brought publishers, researchers,
funders and users of lexical materials for three days to New Mexico,
with the support of the ACL and the NSF.  The major issues of
lexicon-reusability and the problems of copyright/ownership of
materials were discussed extensively and full notes of the discussions
and presentations at the workshop will be distributed very soon as a
technical memorandum (The First Workshop at the Consortium for Lexical
Research. MCCS-92-243 from Computing Research Laboratory, Box 3CRL,
NMSU, Las Cruces, NM 88001, price $7). The second workshop entitled
U.S./European Cooperation took place in January 1993.  The workshop
was sponsored jointly by NSF and the European Commission to discuss
international cooperation of lexical computation.  Twenty-five
researchers participated in the workshop.  (MCCS-93-254 from Computing
Research Laboratory, Box 3CRL, NMSU, Las Cruces, NM 88001, price $5).

FUTURE PLANS

Our plans for the coming year are to expand membership and holdings
steadily over the year, and progress toward our long-term goal of
establishing the Consortium as a self-supporting entity.  We hope to
do this by signing agreements with other dictionary publishers to make
their products available through the CLR and by more actively seeking
contributions of software or data from researchers.  Our membership
drive will focus on obtaining more international members, and members
from the community of researchers and language specialists who may not
have everyday access to the internet.


                   The Consortium for Lexical Research
		  ftp site: clr.nmsu.edu [128.123.1.12]
                 ----------------------------------------

        The Consortium for Lexical Research is housed in the Computing
	Research Laboratory of New Mexico State University, Las
	Cruces, New Mexico.  

        Please email suggestions and questions to lexical@crl.nmsu.edu


The Consortium for Lexical Research
=================================

The Consortium for Lexical Research is designed to serve as a
repository for software and resources of importance to the natural
language processing research community.  Sharable resources, and the
task of centralizing lexical data and tools, are of foremost concern
in lexical research and computational linquistics.  It is our
objective to help alleviate the repeated re-creation of basic software
tools, and to assist in making essential data sources more generally
available.

CLR maintains a public ftp site, and a separate library of materials
only for members of CLR.  Currently CLR has about 60 members, mostly
academic institutions, and almost every major natural language
processing center in the U.S. belongs.  Access to the members only
materials is strictly regulated by password and userid.


Archive Information
===================

What does CLR house at this FTP site

	The easiest way to become familiar with CLR is to use the
	'get' command to retrieve our catalog.  At the top level you
	can find the file "catalog.ps" for a postscript version, or
	"catalog" for a simple ascii version.  The catalog lists
	holdings alphabetically and has a paragraph long description
	of each item.  

	After the paragraph description the catalog tells how to find
	additional information for that item in an "info" file.  For
	example: More Info: info/0114. To obtain this information,
	change to the "info" directory and 'get' the file "0114".

What is membership in the CLR

	CLR archives certain materials exclusively for members of the
	Consortium for Lexical Research.  Members are researchers in
	the computational linguistics and natural language processing
	community.  There are three membership fee categories;
	academic, corporate and government. However, it is possible to
	provide materials in exchange for membership.  If your company
	or organization has data or software that they are willing to
	deposit in the CLR, membership fees can be waived partially or
	completely.  Please request information about becoming a
	member from lexical@crl.nmsu.edu.

How to get more information about CLR.

	The file README.whatis.clr" has a description of our
	activities and goals.  The newsletter directory has past
	issues of newsletters.

* How to upload files to the archive

	To deposit software in the CLR, wrap up the package or files
	using the program most suitable for the target audience: on
	Unix use tar, for PC's use ZIP, and on Mac's use Stuffit or
	Compactor.  Send email to lexical@crl.nmsu.edu informing us of
	the arrival.  Then ftp the file to the directory incoming/.


FTP ACCESS
=============

*   Anonymous ftp:

	  host: ftp clr.nmsu.edu [128.123.1.12]
	  user: anonymous
	  pass: your email address
          type: binary
	
*   Members ftp:

	  host: ftp clr.nmsu.edu [128.123.1.12]
	  user: assigned userid (eg: clrnmm)
	  pass: assigned password (eg: abc09j)
          type: binary


	
FTP COMPRESSION CONVENTIONS
==========================

Files with the suffix .Z are compressed with Unix compress.  Those
with the suffix .z or .gz are compressed with GNU gzip.  Gzip
compresses better.  

This ftp server allows file conversions and transfer of directories in
the following manner:


Original	Requested
File Name	Name		Result
------------------------------------------------------------------

File.Z		File		File is decompressed before sending
File		File.Z		File is compressed
DIR		DIR.tar		Directory DIR is tar'ed
DIR		DIR.tar.z	Direcroty DIR is tar'ed and gzip'ed




CLR Mailing List
====================

	The Archive here is growing rapidly.  If you are interested
	in receiving the CLR newsletter then please email your request
	to lexical@crl.nmsu.edu.
Here is a brief layout of the CLR site.  Every sub-directory is not
listed; rather this synopsis will help you in "exploring" the site.
However, the best way to locate materials is still to 'get' the
catalog.


WITHIN THE DIRECTORY CLR

	catalog		| Catalog and catalog.ps are identical,
	catalog.ps	| except for .ps being a postscript version.
	catalog - short	| Catalog-short lists file names and contents.

	info/		| The info files are a helful auxilliary to
			| the paragraph descriptions of the catalog.

	ls - lR		| These are the conventional ls -lR files
	ls - lR.Z


	lexica/		| This directory contains various types of
			| wordlists, Wordnet, dictionaries, etc.
		

	members-only/
		corpora	  | This area of the site is reserved for
		lexica    | members of the CLR.  The lexica directory
		resources | has dictionaries, wordlists, the gazeteer,
		tools 	  | the SICM terms manual, etc.  The tools
			  | area has the sub-directory ling-analysis
			  | which holds parsers and morphology
			  | programs.  Resources is a service to
			  | members with pointers to lexical
			  | resources; sites, publications, etc.


	multiling/

		General	| The multi-lingual section has a wide 
		arabic	| variety of text processing tools, including
		chinese	| word processors, fonts, transliteration
		french	| programs, etc.  Also. there are language
		gaelic	| instruction aids and tutorials.  
		indian	|
		italian	|
		japanese|
		korean	|
		russian	|
		tibetan	|
		vietnamese


	newsletter/	| All past copies of newsletters, in ascii
			| and postscript format.


	tools/		| This is a large directory with tools for
			| concordances, dictionary maintencnace, sgml.
			| etc.  The ling-analysis area has grammar
			| builders, parsers, and morphology programs.

	


			
		
