From micha@ecrc.de Fri Jan 28 15:56:10 EST 1994
Article: 9502 of comp.lang.prolog
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.lang.prolog:9502
Newsgroups: comp.lang.prolog
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!Germany.EU.net!ecrc!lyra!micha
From: micha@ecrc.de (Micha Meier)
Subject: ECLiPSe 3.4
Message-ID: <CKCHzw.76D@ecrc.de>
Sender: news@ecrc.de
Reply-To: micha@ecrc.de
Organization: European Computer-Industry Research Centre
Date: Fri, 28 Jan 1994 15:07:08 GMT
Lines: 90

We announce the release of

			    ECLiPSe 3.4

ECLiPSe includes SEPIA, an Edinburgh-style extensible Prolog system based
on a WAM compiler, a database system MegaLog, and major parts of the
functionality of CHIP, a constraint logic programming system.

This is the first ECLiPSe release with complete modular support for extensions
based on metaterms and with several constraints systems included
as libraries which use this scheme. It gives the user the possibility
to use various libraries of constraint solvers, to modify them,
add new constraints and to write new solvers, possibly on top
of the existing ones. It provides a modular architecture for the
extensions, so that independent LP and CLP extensions can be
easily written and loaded into one program. The BANG database
system which is part of ECLiPSe is a relational DB in spirit,
but it also allows to store Prolog terms and rules in the relations
and it can thus be used as an object-oriented or deductive DB.

ECLiPSe is an extremely flexible LP system which offers a large number
of built-in predicates and the possibility to modify the behaviour
of the system in many different ways (including event and interrupt
handling, module-dependent syntax and semantics, and a versatile
C interface). It also provides compatibility libraries for Quintus, SICStus
and ElipSys so that programs written for these systems can run without
change on ECLiPSe.

The ECliPSe distribution also includes OPIUM, a high-level debugging
system which allows to define and program debugging strategies and scenarios,
and PADDY, a partial evaluation system.

ECliPSe is currently being offered for Sun-3 and Sun Sparc machines.
The binary release of the ECLiPSe system is available to academic
and government-sponsored organisations for a nominal fee of 300 DM
(about $ 200) and to other organizations for  DM 7000 for any number
of machines.  For further information and orders please email
eclipse_request@ecrc.de. After signing the licence, the users can directly
ftp the system and all further updates and new releases. Users who
already have a SEPIA or MegaLog licence can obtain ECliPSe immediately.

All ECLiPSe documentation is also available by anonymous ftp from ftp.ecrc.de,
in the directory /pub/eclipse/doc.

New Features in 3.4:
-------------
** Libraries: There are several libraries with constraints solvers:
   linear rational arithmetic (similar to CLP(R) or CHIP) r.pl,
   Constraints handling rules chr.pl and Generalised propagation
   propia.pl (both of them work also with finite domains).
   The finite domains library (now called fd.pl) has been
   modified to allow simpler writing of user-defined
   constraints and to provide more predicates to handle domains.
   Finite domains can now contain any atomic terms.

** Metaterms: The syntax and semantics of metaterms has been modified
   to allow the integration of several independent extensions in one system.
   Metaterms and their handling are described in the new Extensions User
   Manual.
   Existing programs should run with minor changes which concern
   declaration of the metaterm attribute and modified metaterm events.

** Coroutining: Suspended goals have an associated priority and the
   waking scheme guarantees that goals with higher priority will be
   always woken before the ones with lower priority.
   Since the declarative semantics does not depend on the order
   of woken goals, existing programs will run, however the new scheme
   is cleaner and more predictable.

** Debugger: New debug events. Before printing a trace line, the debugger
   raises an event and only if the event handler succeeds, the line
   is printed, otherwise it continues. This feature allows to inspect
   arguments of the traced goals, make conditional spy points, etc.
   User debug events allow to access and/or modify variables of the
   traced goals.

** Graphics: The Tcl/Tk interface ProTcl 1.1 allows to specify Prolog
   handlers for X events. Tk is an X toolkit which is versatile and
   simple to use, there is also much PD code available for it.

The next major ECLiPSe release will include OR-parallelism.



---
Micha Meier			------------------------------------------------
ECRC, Arabellastr. 17		The opinions expressed above are private
D-81925 Munich 81		and may not reflect those of my employer.
micha@ecrc.de, Tel. +49-89-92699-108, Fax  +49-89-92699-170



