From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.mic.ucla.edu!library.ucla.edu!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!utcsri!alberta!vanbeek Wed Aug  4 12:14:12 EDT 1993
Article: 18091 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18091
Newsgroups: comp.ai,can.ai
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.mic.ucla.edu!library.ucla.edu!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!utcsri!alberta!vanbeek
From: vanbeek@cs.UAlberta.CA (Peter van Beek)
Subject: Call for participation: AI'94, Banff, Alberta
Message-ID: <1993Jul28.225325.12420@cs.UAlberta.CA>
Sender: news@cs.UAlberta.CA (News Administrator)
Nntp-Posting-Host: vilna.cs.ualberta.ca
Organization: University of Alberta
Date: Wed, 28 Jul 1993 22:53:25 GMT
Lines: 127


                         CALL FOR PARTICIPATION

                                 AI'94
              Canadian Artificial Intelligence Conference

                            Banff Park Lodge
                         Banff, Alberta, Canada
                            May 16-20, 1994
                                   

AI'94 is the tenth biennial conference on Artificial Intelligence
sponsored by the Canadian Society for the Computational Study of
Intelligence.  AI'94 will be held in conjunction with AI/GI/VI'94.
AI/GI/VI'94 is a unique event with three Canadian research conferences
that present the latest results in artificial intelligence, computer
graphics, and computer vision.  Each conference offers three concurrent
days of invited and submitted papers.  For a single registration fee,
conference participants can attend presentations in any of the three,
promoting the exchange of knowledge among these important disciplines.
Two days have been set aside for workshops and other events.  A banquet
and electronic theatre provide additional opportunities to meet speakers
and other attendees for informal discussion in a social setting.

The conference will be held at the Banff Park Lodge, Banff, Alberta.
Banff is located in the spectacular Canadian Rockies, the beauty of
which remains unsurpassed, and is just an hour and a half drive from
Calgary.  The Calgary International Airport can be reached from many
North American cities via many different airlines.  In addition, there
is direct bus service from the Calgary International Airport to Banff,
or alternatively one can arrange a limousine or rental car at the
airport.  The ski season usually ends around the 24th of May at
Sunshine, so ski enthusiasts may enjoy spring skiing at its finest.
For non-skiers there are many other activities to occupy their time.

Contributions are invited that present original, unpublished results in
all areas of Artificial Intelligence.  Submitted papers must not exceed
5000 words in length, including abstract and bibliography.  Theoretical
and position papers will be judged on their originality and contribution
to the field of AI, and applied papers on the importance and originality
of the application.  To help in the review process, authors should list,
in decreasing order of relevance, 1 to 3 of the following keywords:

applications        learning                reasoning (indicate subarea)
search              cognitive modelling     knowledge representation
planning            architectures           knowledge acquisition
perception          robotics                language understanding
problem solving     theorem proving         neural nets/connectionism

Authors should submit four (4) complete copies of the paper in hardcopy
form, for review by members of the program committee.  Acceptance
depends on the overall merit and significance of the reported research,
as well as the quality of the written presentation.  Each copy of the
paper must include a cover page, separate from the body of the paper,
which includes, in order, (1) title of the paper, (2) full names,
postal addresses, phone numbers, and email address of all authors, (3)
an abstract of no more than 250 words, and (4) keywords to classify the
paper for review purposes.  As a condition of acceptance, the author or
a co-author must present the paper at the conference.  If the paper is
being submitted to other conferences, either in verbatim or in essence,
authors must clearly indicate this on the cover page.

Papers should be sent to the program chair, Renee Elio.  Papers must be
received by 15 November 1993.  Notification of acceptance or rejection
will be mailed to the first author by 7 February 1994.  Camera ready
copy of accepted papers is due 24 March 1994.  Each paper will be
allotted up to eight (8) pages in the conference proceedings, formatted
using 12pt LaTeX or equivalent.  The journal Artificial Intelligence
intends to publish the ``best paper'' of the conference, and provide a
prize.  Selection of the best paper will be done by the program
committee.

Important Dates

* November 15, 1993: Four copies of papers due to the program
  chair at the address listed below (no electronic submissions).

* February 7, 1994: Author notifications mailed.

* March 24, 1994: Accepted camera-ready papers due.

* May 16-17, 1994: Workshops.

* May 18-20, 1994: Conference technical program.

Submit papers to:
  Renee Elio
  Computing Science Dept
  University of Alberta
  Edmonton, AB  T6G 2H1
  Canada

For additional conference and registration information, contact:
  AI/GI/VI'94
  Box 1098
  Summerland, B.C.  V0H 1Z0
  Canada

General Co-Chairs (AI/GI/VI'94):
  Tony Marsland & Wayne Davis, University of Alberta

Program Chair (AI'94):
  Renee Elio, University of Alberta

Local Arrangements (AI/GI/VI'94):
  Jan Mulder, Alberta Research Council

Program Committee (AI'94):
  Fahiem Bacchus          U of Waterloo
  Veronica Dahl           Simon Fraser University
  Brian Gaines            U of Calgary
  Russell Greiner         Siemens Research Lab
  Lev Goldfarb            U of New Brunswick
  Scott Goodwin           U of Regina
  Rainer von Konigslow    Cognex Corporation
  Bruce MacDonald         U of Calgary
  Gordon McCalla          U of Saskatchewan
  Mary McLeish            U of Guelph
  Robert Mercer           U of Western Ontario
  John Mylopoulos         U of Toronto
  Monty Newborn           McGill University
  Eric Neufeld            U of Saskatchewan
  David Poole             U of British Columbia

Proposals for workshops are invited and should be sent to the
program chair.



From honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!sparky!rick Thu Aug 26 12:34:34 EDT 1993
Article: 4561 of news.announce.conferences
Xref: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu news.announce.conferences:4561
Newsgroups: news.announce.conferences
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!sparky!rick
From: janice@qucis.queensu.ca (Janice Glasgow)
Subject: CFP: 10th Biennial Conference of the Canadian Society for Computational Studies of Intelligence
Message-ID: <1993Aug26.005929.26807@sparky.sterling.com>
Keywords: conference call, artificial intelligence
Sender: rick@sparky.sterling.com (Richard Ohnemus)
Organization: Computing & Information Science, Queen's University
Date: Thu, 26 Aug 1993 00:59:29 GMT
Approved: rick@sparky.sterling.com
Expires: Tue, 16 Nov 1993 08:00:00 GMT
Lines: 88
X-Md4-Signature: d1f8aca96af1fb7d691bbd2e3268ed7a


                         CALL FOR PAPERS
                             AI-94

                 The 10th Biennial Conference of the
              Canadian Society for Computational Studies
                        of Intelligence
                            (CSCSI)


                     Banff Alberta, May 16-20, 1994
                          ai94@cs.ualberta.ca


AI-94 is the tenth biennial conference on Artificial Intelligence
sponsored  by the Canadian Society for the Computational Study of
Intelligence. It will be held  in  conjunction  with  the  Vision
Interface  and  Graphics  Interface  conferences.   Tony Marsland
(tony@cs.ualberta.ca), University  of  Alberta,  is  the  general
chair.

Contributions are  invited  that  present  original,  unpublished
results  in  all areas of Artificial Intelligence. They should be
sent to the program chair, Renee Elio,  Department  of  Computing
Science,   University   of   Alberta,   Edmonton,   Alberta
(ai94@cs.ualberta.ca).Papers must be received by November 15,1993.

Submitted papers must not exceed 5000 words in length,  including
abstract  and bibliography.  Theoretical and position papers will
be judged on their originality and contribution to the  field  of
AI,  and  applied papers on the importance and originality of the
application.  To help in the review process, authors should list,
in  decreasing  order  of  relevance,  1  to  3  of the following
keywords:

applications         learning          reasoning(indicate subarea)
cognitive modelling  search            knowledge representation
planning             architectures     knowledge acquisition
perception           robotics          language understanding
problem solving      theorem proving   neural nets/connectionism

Authors should submit four (4) complete copies of  the  paper  in
hardcopy  form,  for  review by members of the program committee.
Acceptance depends on the overall merit and significance  of  the
reported  research,  as  well  as  the  quality  of  the  written
presentation.  Each copy of the paper must include a cover  page,
separate  from  the  body of the paper, which includes, in order,
(1) title of the paper, (2) full names, postal  addresses,  phone
numbers,  and  email addresses of all authors, (3) an abstract of
no more than 250 words, and (4) keywords to  classify  the  paper
for  review purposes. As a condition of acceptance, the author or
a co-author must present the paper  at  the  conference.  If  the
paper is being submitted to other conferences, either in verbatim
or in essence, authors must clearly indicate this  on  the  cover
page.

Notification of acceptance or rejection will  be  mailed  to  the
first  author by February 7, 1994. Camera- ready copy of accepted
papers is due March 24, 1994. Each paper will be allotted  up  to
eight  (8)  double  column  pages  in the conference proceedings,
formatted using  12pt  LaTeX  or  equivalent.   Authors  will  be
provided  with  appropriate  LaTeX macros. The journal Artificial
Intelligence  also intends to publish the  "best  paper"  of  the
conference,  and  to provide a prize. Selection of the best paper
will be done by the program committee.


All correspondence concerning the conference should be directed
to ai94@cs.ualberta.ca.


Program Committee:

Fahiem Bacchus
Veronica Dahl
Brian Gaines
Russell Greiner
Lev Goldfarb
Scott Goodwin
Rainer van Konigslow
Bruce MacDonald
Gordon McCalla
Mary McLeish
Robert Mercer
John Mylopoulos
Monty Newborn
Eric Neufeld
David Poole


