Review by Mark Kantrowitz:

Ian Pratt
"Artificial Intelligence"
Macmillan, London, 1994. 280 pages.
ISBN 0-333-59755-9. $35.

This book provides an in-depth introduction to several advanced AI
topics, using inference as a central theme. Other key themes that run
throughout the book include knowledge representation, search, and
heuristics.

Because the book is based around the idea of inference, several
important topics have been deliberately left out of the book. Of
these, the most notable omissions are natural language processing,
expert systems, speech processing, genetic algorithms, vision, and
robotics. Yet the book does include a chapter on neural networks,
which seems a bit at odds with the emphasis of the rest of the book.
It also lacks more specialized topics, like case-based reasoning,
qualitative physics, and theorem proving. As a result this book is a
good themed introduction to a subset of AI, but is not suitable for a
general purpose overview of AI.  

Nevertheless, the book does fulfill its stated goal of framing an
introduction to AI from an inference perspective.

Overall, the presentation is superb, with clear and concise
descriptions of concepts. When introducing a new concept, the book
first covers the essential insights behind the idea before getting
into technical details. The book makes good use of diagrams to help
explain difficult concepts. The technical presentation depends
heavily on the use of predicate calculus formulas, but a tutorial
introduction to predicate calculus is included in the appendix.  
The technical discussion includes pseudocode for many of the algorithms.
Every chapter concludes with a set of exercises and a bibliography for
further reading.

This book does not attempt to be a comprehensive survey of artificial
intelligence, and instead focuses on a cohesive subset, going into a
little more depth than the usual introduction to AI. Thus the book is
suitable for a one-semester advanced undergraduate course in AI or an
introductory masters-level course, assuming that other courses are
devoted to NLP and Robotics & Computer Vision. The book could also be
used as a supplementary text for a survey course.

The book's index is not very good. For example, it does not include an
entry for A* seach, even though the book devotes three pages to A*
search.

Topics:

   Backward Chaining, Closed-World Assumption, Defeasible Inference,
   Dependency-Directed Backtracking, Forward Chaining, Frame Problem,
   Induction (ID3), Inference, Logic, Means-End Analysis, Memory
   Organization (Scripts and Frames), Neural Networks, Non-Monotonic
   Logic, Planning, Probabilistic Reasoning (Bayes Networks), Search,
   Truth Maintenance

Ordering Information:

   UNITED STATES --
   Scholium International Inc.
   PO Box 1519
   Port Washington
   New York, NY 11050
   Tel: 516-767-7171
   Fax: 516-944-9824

   CANADA --
   McClelland & Stewart Inc.
   380 Esna Park Drive, Markham
   Ontario L3R 1H5
   Canada
   Tel: 416-940-8855
   Fax: 416-940-8864

