            Welcome to the Demo Version of Propagator



Q: What is Propagator?

A: Propagator is a general purpose neural network development system.  It
   performs many variations of the most common neural network training
   technique, Backpropagation.  You do not need to be a neural network
   expert to use Propagator, but some knowledge of neural networks is
   helpful.  You certainly do not need to be a programmer to effectively
   use Propagator.

   Propagator "learns" arbitrary nonlinear relationships between two sets
   of data (input data and target data).  Many people that use techniques
   such as Multiple Regression find that neural network models, using the
   same data, can make much more accurate predictions.



Q: What is special about Propagator?

A: Four main things:
   1. Propagator is very easy to use.
   2. Propagator is inexpensive.
   3. Propagator is fast.
   4. Propagator writes the source code for your trained networks.

   There are lots of other more technical reasons why Propagator is special,
   like the ability to train with a validation set, nice real time graphics,
   and the ability to add noise while training or testing.  But, you will
   see all of these features when you run the demo.



Q: What is included in this Package?

A: 1. The PC (Windows) Demo version of Propagator.
   2. Two sets of commonly used example data files, however you can use your
     own files if you like.
   3. A fully functional scale program that can be used to scale and set
     delimiters for your data.
   4. A file containing operation instructions (manual.txt)
   5. A read me file (the file your reading now).

Q: What is not included with the demo?

A: 1. You cannot save with the demo version.
   2. Saving includes: network problem files, log files, best weights files,
     and output vs. target files.
   3. The source code generation program is not included in the demo.  This
     program is used to generate C source code for your trained neural
     networks.
   4. The Propagator User's Manual.



Q: How do I order Propagator?

A: Call ARD Corporation at:
   Phone       410/997-5600 or 1-800/969-2731
   Fax         410/997-3902
   Email       propagator@ard.com



Q: How much does it cost?

A: PC Windows 3.x version                    $199
   Macintosh System 7.x version              $199
   Sun Solaris 1.x and Solaris 2.x version   $499

   Site licenses and educational discounts are also available
   for all versions.



Q: What are the hardware and software requirements for this demo?

A: 386 or higher; math coprocessor required
   2 MB of RAM
   1 MB of free hard disk space
   DOS 5.0 or higher
   Window 3.x



       Propagator for Windows Demo Installation Instructions



The discussion below assumes that the floppy disk is drive "A:" and the hard
disk is drive "C:".  If your drive designations are different, substitute the
correct letter in the instructions below.

The demo version of Propagator is a self-extracting archive.  Use the
following instructions to uncompress and install on your hard disk.

1.  Insert the Propagator Demo Floppy Disk.
2.  At the DOS prompt, type the following to uncompress and place the
    distribution files on your hard disk.  The following command will
    create the GATORDEM directory in the root directory of the hard disk.
     C:\> a:\gatordem  -d
3.  Type the following to start Windows.  The installation setup program
    will not work from DOS prompt.
     C:\> win /3
4.  From the  "File" menu of the Windows Program Manager, select "Run..."
    menu.  The Run Dialog box will be displayed.
5.  Type in the following command to start the installation process.
     c:\gatordem\setup
6.  Select "OK".  The Propagator Setup window will be displayed.
7.  Select "Continue" to install or "Exit" to stop the installation.
8.  Type in the directory you want to install Propagator.  The default
    directory is:
     C:\GATORDEM
9.  "Continue" to complete the installation or "Exit" to abort.
10.  You're set!  Enjoy Propagator.
