Article 18020 of comp.ai:
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18020
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cert.org!netnews.upenn.edu!newsserver.jvnc.net!darwin.sura.net!ra!itd!khan
From: khan@itd.itd.nrl.navy.mil (Umar Khan)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: Call for Participation: Ethical Reasoning and AI
Keywords: ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, ETHICS, AI
Message-ID: <CAoD69.2sF@ra.nrl.navy.mil>
Date: 24 Jul 93 15:18:09 GMT
Sender: usenet@ra.nrl.navy.mil
Organization: US Treasury, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
Lines: 57

CALL FOR PARTICIPATION

Workshop on Ethical Reasoning in Artifical Intelligence
(in conjunction with FLAIRS-94)

Pensacola Beach, Florida
May 4, 1994

The purpose of this workshop is to bring together active researchers and
scholars in the area of Ethical reasoning.  Ethical reasoning is an emer-
ging field with foundations in Computer Science, Cognitive Psychology, &
Philosophy.  The field encompasses at least two perspectives:
(a) those who seek to model the cognitive processes of human beings who
interact in ethical situations, and (b) those who seek to enhance the
integrity of autonomous learning automata which might be employed in do-
mains effecting the lives, health, and well being of humans.  Computational
approaches to ethics include the published works of the Mathematician George 
David Birkhoff who sought the unification of logic, aesthetics, and ethics
as well as the work of the theoretical Psychologist Vladimir Lefebvre, who
developed an algebra of 'reflexive polynomials.'  Contributions to the further 
understanding of ethical reasoning may also be found in the areas of Scholastic
Ethics (often taught as sylogisms), Economics theories of fairness or equity 
in micropolicy as well as in a study of the Law.  In addition, the issue of 
ethics and automation has been much dealt with in fiction and science
fiction.  Contributions from other fields are encouraged and will be considered 
on a case by case basis. 

Through paper presentations and discussions, the participants will exchange, 
compare, and contrast approaches and results in the area.  The format will
provide ample time for discussions and exchange of ideas.  To maximize par-
ticipation, the size of the workshop will be limited.  Accepted papers will
be invited for full presentation or poster presentation.  

The workshop is planned as a one-day event to immediately preceed the 1994 
Florida Artificial Intelligence Research Symposium (FLAIRS-94).  Workshop 
participants are encouraged to also submit papers to FLAIRS-94 and to
attend the symposium.  The workshop registration fee will be waived for
those participants who also register for FLAIRS-94.

All submissions must be post-marked by 1 December, 1993.  Notification of
acceptance or rejection will be sent to the first author (or designated
author) by 1 February, 1994.  Prospective participants should submit five
(5) copies of a 5-10 page extended abstract to: Umar Khan, US Department of
Treasury, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), Office of Systems
Integration, Artificial Intelligence Division, 2070 Chain Bridge Road, Vienna, 
Virginia 22182.  For further information and future announcements, contact
Umar Khan by e-mail at khan@itd.nrl.navy.mil or by telephone at: (703) 516-
0718 before 16 August, 1993 or (703) 905-3718 thereafter.
 
ORGANIZATION

Ethical Reasoning Workshop Chair:    Umar Khan, FinCEN (US Treasury)

FLAIRS-94 Conference General Chairs: Alberto Canas, University of West Florida
                                     David Kuncicky, Florida State University

FLAIRS-94 Workshop Liaison:          Ken Ford, University of West Florida 


