From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!uunet!newsflash.concordia.ca!mizar.cc.umanitoba.ca!tribune.usask.ca!sue!mercury.cs.uregina.ca!time94 Tue Jul 27 11:32:54 EDT 1993
Article: 18045 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18045
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!uunet!newsflash.concordia.ca!mizar.cc.umanitoba.ca!tribune.usask.ca!sue!mercury.cs.uregina.ca!time94
From: time94@mercury.cs.uregina.ca (TIME-94 Co-chairs)
Subject: TIME-94: Call for Papers
Sender: news@sue.cc.uregina.ca
Message-ID: <1993Jul26.172637.2035568@sue.cc.uregina.ca>
Date: Mon, 26 Jul 1993 17:26:37 GMT
Organization: University of Regina, SK, Canada
Lines: 101

                                 CALL FOR PAPERS

  TIME-94: An International Workshop on Temporal Representation and Reasoning
                         (in conjunction with FLAIRS-94)

                          Pensacola Beach, Florida, USA
                                   May 4, 1994

The purpose of this workshop is to bring together active researchers in the
area of temporal representation and reasoning in Artificial Intelligence.
Through paper presentations and discussions, the participants will exchange,
compare, and contrast results in the area. The workshop is planned as a one-day
event to immediately precede FLAIRS-94 (Florida Artificial Intelligence
Research Symposium). Workshop participants are encouraged to also submit papers
to FLAIRS and attend the conference. The workshop will be conducted as a
combination of paper presentations, a poster session, an invited talk, and a
panel discussion. The format will provide ample time for discussions and
exchange of ideas. The workshop registration fee will be waived for those who
register for FLAIRS-94. Submission of high quality papers or extended abstracts
describing mature results or on-going work are invited for all areas of
temporal representation and reasoning, including, but not limited to:

     temporal logics and ontologies
     temporal languages and architectures
     planning, actions, and events
     frame problem
     continuous versus discrete time
     point versus interval representations
     temporal knowledge, belief, and uncertainty            
     temporal learning and discovery
     multiple agents, communication, and synchronization     
     foundational issues and applications

To maximize interaction among participants, the size of the workshop will be 
limited. Accepted papers will be invited for full presentation or a poster 
presentation. All submissions must be received by December 1, 1993.
Notification of acceptance or rejection will be sent to the first author (or
designated author) on February 1, 1994. Prospective participants should submit
5 copies of a 5-8 page extended abstract to: 
	TIME-94, 
	Department of Computer Science, 
	University of Regina,
	Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada S4S 0A2. 
For further information and future announcements send email to: 
	time94@cs.uregina.ca.

                              INVITED SPEAKER

Thomas Dean is a professor in the Department of Computer Science at Brown 
University.  His research is concerned with theories of temporal and spatial 
inference for reasoning about actions and processes.  His current focus is on 
reasoning with incomplete and probabilistic information.  Dean was the
recipient of an NSF Presidential Young Investigator Award in 1989.  He was
program co-chair for the 1991 National Conference on Artificial Intelligence
and currently serves on the AAAI Council.

                               ORGANIZATION

Workshop and Program Co-chairs:    
	Scott Goodwin, University of Regina
        Howard Hamilton, University of Regina

FLAIRS Conference General Chairs:  
	Alberto Canas, University of West Florida
        David Kuncicky, Florida State University

FLAIRS Workshop Liaison:         
	Ken Ford, University of West Florida

Program Committee:
	Jennifer Elgot-Drapkin, Arizona State University      
	Michael Fisher, Manchester Metropolitan University
	Michael Georgeff, Australian AI Institute            
	Randy Goebel, University of Alberta
	Pat Hayes, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  
	Peter Haddawy, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
	Keiji Kanazawa, University of British Columbia       
	Henry Kautz, AT&T
	Johannes Koomen, State University of New York      
	Peter Ladkin, University of Stirling
	Amy Lansky, NASA Ames                       
	Drew McDermott, Yale University
	Leora Morgenstern, IBM Yorktown                
	Robert Morris, Florida Institute of Technology
	Judea Pearl, UCLA                            
	Don Perlis, University of Maryland
	Han Reichgelt, University of the West Indies         
	Erik Sandewall, Linkoping University
	Marek Sergot, Imperial College                   
	Murray Shanahan, Imperial College
	Lynn Andrea Stein, MIT                        
	Josh Tenenberg, University of Indiana
	Andre Trudel, Acadia University

                           SUMMARY OF IMPORTANT DATES

	December 1, 1993	Submission deadline
	February 1, 1994	Acceptance letters mailed
	May 4, 1994		TIME-94 Workshop
	May 5-7, 1994		FLAIRS-94 Conference



