From ikheiral@uwovax.uwo.ca Tue Feb  9 10:30:56 1993
Path: cam-eng!uknet!doc.ic.ac.uk!agate!ames!sun-barr!cs.utexas.edu!torn!newshost.uwo.ca!uwovax.uwo.ca!ikheiral
From: ikheiral@uwovax.uwo.ca
Newsgroups: comp.speech
Subject: Speech Analysis/Synthesis Software
Message-ID: <1993Feb5.111405.1@uwovax.uwo.ca>
Date: 5 Feb 93 15:14:05 GMT
Sender: news@julian.uwo.ca (USENET News System)
Organization: University of Western Ont, London
Lines: 99
Nntp-Posting-Host: hydra.uwo.ca





This is a reply to:

Noel Nguyen
laboratory of psycholinguistics
faculty of psychology
University of Geneva, Switzerland

              and to

a posting sent from registry@dfki.uni-sb.de

requesting information on speech analysis/synthesis software.






A Speech Research Environment.

Recently, requests for the availability of affordable speech
synthesizers packages were posted.  CSRE is a software which
includes in addition to the Klatt speech synthesizer, SPEECH
ANALYSIS and EXPERIMENT CONTROL SYSTEM. A paper about the whole
package can be found in:

J.J. Ohala, T.M. Nearey, B.L. Derwing, M.M. Hodge,
and G.E. Wiebe (Editors.) Proceedings of the Second International
Conference on Spoken Language Processing, Edmonton: University
of Alberta, pp. 1127-1130. The title of the paper is:
CSRE: A SPEECH RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT.

Following is an abstract about this paper:
 
CSRE: A SPEECH RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT. CSRE (The Canadian Speech
Research Environment) is a comprehensive, microcomputer-based
system designed to support speech research using
IBM/AT-compatible micro-computers. CSRE provides a powerful,
low-cost facility in support of speech research, using
mass-produced and widely-available hardware. The project is
non-profit, and relies on the cooperation of researchers at a
number of institutions. Work on the project began in 1986 with
support from NSERC; it is now supported primarily by the fees
generated when the software is distributed. Version 3.0 of CSRE
has been used since 1989 by researchers in more than 100
laboratories in 12 countries. Version 4.0 offers a wider range of
functions, runs faster, uses higher resolution displays, and
supports additional hardware systems, including digital signal
processing boards. Functions include speech capture, editing, and
replay; several alternative spectral analysis procedures, with
color and surface/3D displays; parameter extraction/tracking and
tools to automate measurement and support data logging;
alternative pitch-extraction systems; parametric speech (KLATT80)
and non-speech acoustic synthesis, with a variety of supporting
productivity tools; and a comprehensive experiment generator, to
support behavioral testing using a variety of common testing
protocols.

The Data Aqcuisition/DSP boards which CSRE supports are:
        DT2801A,
        DT2821,
        ARIEL DSP-16(TI TMS32020 based),
        ARIEL DSP-56(MOTOROLA DSP56001 based),
        TDT AP2/1 (AT&T 32C based).

Other boards including Sound Blasters and Pro Audio Spectrum will
be supported in the near future.





For more information about the availability of this software
please contact Krystyna Marciniak at:

Email:   march@uwovax.uwo.ca
TEL  :   (519) 661-3901.
FAX  :   (519) 661-3805.

For technical information email ramji@uwovax.uwo.ca


This research product was developed at an academic institution
on a non-profit basis. It is intended to facilitate research to
laboratories and institutions. CSRE 4.0 is being distributed on
a cost-recovery basis.


Sam Kheirallah.
Hearing Health Care Research Unit
Department of Communicative disorders,
University of Western Ontario,
London, Ontario,
N6G 1H1
CANADA.

