From rob@bip.anatomy.upenn.edu Tue May 31 21:05:45 EDT 1994
Article: 16787 of comp.ai.neural-nets
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai.neural-nets:16787
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!nntp.club.cc.cmu.edu!newsfeed.pitt.edu!dsinc!netnews.upenn.edu!bip.anatomy.upenn.edu!rob
From: rob@bip.anatomy.upenn.edu (Robert G. Smith)
Newsgroups: comp.ai.neural-nets
Subject: Announcement: NeuronC available
Date: 24 May 1994 21:42:12 GMT
Organization: University of Pennsylvania
Lines: 52
Message-ID: <2rtsbk$gt0@netnews.upenn.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bip.anatomy.upenn.edu
Summary: NeuronC, a biophysically-based compartmental simulator is available.
Keywords: compartmental simulator computer model neural circuitry network
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

It has recently come to my attention that several people
were looking for my simulator, NeuronC, but could not
locate the source.  It is available by anonymous ftp
from:

   retina.anatomy.upenn.edu:pub/nc.tgz

Neuronc ("nc") is a general-purpose computer language somewhat
like C that has special features for simulating large neural 
circuits using compartments.  It allows creating large arrays and
uses an iterative difference equation solver so that virtually
any network geometry may be specified (e.g. geometry is not
limited to "tree" structure, and may include loops).
Since "nc" is primarily a language it does not contain a
complete interactive pull-down menu system for describing and
running a simulation.  However, there is a complete graphics
facility for displaying on standard devices such as X11,
PostScript, and VGA.  If you have access to a mainframe
computer but your mainframe terminal lacks graphics capability,
you can run "nc" in a non-graphics mode and download
ASCII (text) files that contain all the "nc" output graphics
and data. These files may then be displayed locally on a PC.

Nc is currently being developed in the C++ language with
"gcc", although a procedure is provided to convert the 
source into standard ANSI C.

The capabilities of the "nc" language are described in:

    Smith, R.G.  (1992) NeuronC: a computational language for
    investigating functional architecture of neural circuits.
    J. Neurosci. Meth.  43: 83-108.

Several additions have been made since the publication of
this paper.  They include voltage-sensitive calcium channels,
calcium diffusion and calcium-sensitive potassium channels.

The simulator runs under most Unix systems, including SGI,
Sun, IBM AIX, and Linux.

Nc is available free to the scientific community.  It was
developed with funds from NIMH and I hope to benefit from
any feedback (error reports, suggestions about additions, etc.)
that users can provide.

Let me know if you would like more information or 
need help compiling "nc".

Robert G. Smith

rob@retina.anatomy.upenn.edu



Article 17477 of comp.ai.neural-nets:
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai.neural-nets:17477
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!nntp.club.cc.cmu.edu!godot.cc.duq.edu!newsfeed.pitt.edu!gatech!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!gumby!wupost!psuvax1!news.cc.swarthmore.edu!netnews.upenn.edu!bip.anatomy.upenn.edu!rob
From: rob@bip.anatomy.upenn.edu (Robert G. Smith)
Newsgroups: comp.ai.neural-nets
Subject: Announcement: NeuronC available with POVRAY output
Date: 25 Jun 1994 04:38:07 GMT
Organization: University of Pennsylvania
Lines: 38
Message-ID: <2ugcbf$djg@netnews.upenn.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bip.anatomy.upenn.edu
Summary: NeuronC, a compartmental neural simulator displays Ray-Traced output.
Keywords: neural circuit, ray-trace, 3D, compartmental simulator
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

My neural circuit simulator "NeuronC" now produces ray-traced 
scenes for rendering with the "POVRAY" simulator (as well as 
standard X11, VGA, and PS outputs).  The simulator is a 
general-purpose compartmental simulator that can construct
a morphological- and biophysically-based neural circuit and
run a physiology experiment on it.  

   The "NeuronC" simulator was originally designed for vision 
experiments on large neural circuits. It includes a 2D light 
stimulus (with optical blur and photon noise) and photoreceptor 
models complete with spectral sensitivities and time-responses.  
A flexible set of synapse and membrane channel models is also 
included, including HH, sequential-state, and calcium-dependent
versions.  Any network geometry can be simulated (including 
electrical loops) and a virtually unlimited number of voltage-
clamp/current clamp and recording sites may be specified and 
plotted.

  NeuronC is described in J. Neurosci. Meth (1992) 43:83-108.

   You can obtain the distribution along with compilation
information and a complete 100-page manual by anonymous
ftp to:

  retina.anatomy.upen.edu

  The distribution is in "pub/nc.tgz" and the documentation
is in the "nc/doc" subdirectory.  The distribution has been
compressed with "gzip"; if you don't have this program, a 
gzip source distribution is available in the same directory.

  NeuronC is free to the scientific community and was developed
under a grant from NIMH.

Hope this is useful,

Rob Smith
 


