From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.mic.ucla.edu!unixg.ubc.ca!kakwa.ucs.ualberta.ca!alberta!aditya Mon Aug  9 12:11:38 EDT 1993
Article: 18250 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18250
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.mic.ucla.edu!unixg.ubc.ca!kakwa.ucs.ualberta.ca!alberta!aditya
From: aditya@cs.UAlberta.CA (Aditya Ghose)
Subject: CFP: AI93 Workshop on Belief Revision
Message-ID: <aditya.744712199@bellis>
Sender: news@cs.UAlberta.CA (News Administrator)
Nntp-Posting-Host: bellis.cs.ualberta.ca
Organization: University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada
Date: Sat, 7 Aug 1993 08:29:59 GMT
Lines: 137


		     FINAL CALL FOR PARTICIPATION
                     -----------------------------

AI'93 Workshop on ``Belief revision: Bridging the gap between theory 
			  and practice''
		      Melbourne,  AUSTRALIA
		        November 16, 1993 


DESCRIPTION:
-----------

The workshop on ``Belief revision: Bridging the gap between theory and Practice''
will be held in Melbourne, Australia in conjunction with The Sixth Australian
Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AI'93).

The need for pragmatic theories of belief revision is becoming increasingly 
apparent to the AI community. Much of the existing work in this field has
involved purely formal studies requiring unrealistic assumptions on the one 
hand, and implemented knowledge update procedures which are not based on
well-understood theories of belief revision on the other. This workshop
aims to bring together researchers interested in developing implementable
theories of belief change and in building practical belief revision systems.

The workshop seeks to address a number of issues involved in developing practical
belief revision systems including, but not limited to: 

- Belief representation frameworks: We do not have a clear idea of what
constitutes a computationally plausible, yet sufficiently expressive language
for belief representation. The question of what constitutes a belief state needs
to be addressed and the debate on the coherence versus foundational approaches
needs to be resolved.

- Revision operators: There are few reports in the literature on efficient
belief revision algorithms. A need exists for complexity studies of existing
algorithms, and for a systematic identification of constraints on belief
representation languages and the conditions under which they could be relaxed 
to obtain greater efficiency. The relevance of approximation algorithms and
frameworks for resource-limited reasoners also needs to be discussed.

- Nonmonotonic reasoning systems: A number of studies have pointed out the
close relation between belief revision and nonmonotonic reasoning. The
possibility of using implemented nonmonotonic reasoning systems as building
blocks for belief revision systems needs to be investigated.

- Developing an application-oriented taxonomy of belief change: Although
fundamentally identical, the belief revision process can take different forms 
depending on the nature of the application. One such distinction, for instance,
is between revising beliefs in a static world versus updating 
beliefs in a dynamic world. A clearer understanding of how our account
of belief change must be modified with the application is needed. Possible
topics that could be addressed include the relationship between belief revision
and theories of action, temporal reasoning, and abduction.

- Empirical studies: It is becoming increasingly clear that any pragmatic
account of belief change will require a better understanding of the process in
humans. Reports of empirical studies of belief change on human populations are
thus relevant to the workshop theme.

- Interdisciplinary studies: Practical theories of belief revision are of
interest to researchers in a variety of areas. Database theorists address an
almost identical question in defining the semantics for database updates. Since
a theory of individual and collective revision of beliefs and preferences is
important in understanding a variety of social behaviours, the issue interests
social scientists as well. Reports of interdisciplinary studies, such as a 
study applying the economic theory of maximizing utility in rational choice to 
the process of choosing amongst the multiple outcomes of a belief change 
operation, are invited.

- Rationality requirements for belief revision operators: There is an
obvious need for a consensus on a basic set of requirements that any revision
operator should satisfy. Rationality postulates for revision operators exist in
the literature, but a variety of studies have indicated that these postulates
impose unrealistic expectations in some cases, and ignore important restrictions
in some others. Ideally, this workshop should be able to generate, through a
panel discussion, a consensus report on a reasonable set of rationality
postulates for belief change operators.

- Implemented systems: Submissions reporting implemented belief revision
systems are strongly encouraged.

Prospective participants should submit 5 copies of an extended abstract at most
ten pages long. Those who wish to participate but do not intend to present
their work must submit a  one-page statement of research interests, providing
pointers to any relevant previous work. All submissions should include an email
address, a telephone/fax number and a mailing address. Prospective
participants may contact members of the organizing committee for any further
questions or comments. All submissions should be sent either by electronic
mail to: 	sattar@cit.gu.edu.au 

or by hard copy to:

		Abdul Sattar
		School of Computing and Information Technology
		Griffith University
		Nathan, Brisbane (Qld.) AUSTRALIA  4111

Accepted abstracts will be compiled and circulated in the workshop as its
informal working proceedings.


Submission deadline:  				August 9, 1993
Participants notified: 				September 10, 1993.
Final camera-ready copies:      		October 11, 1993.


Registration fee:		Aus $ 30.00

FORMAT:
-------
The workshop program will include both invited and submitted papers.
Presentations will be organized into a few  thematically
coherent panels to encourage discussion.
 
Invited speakers:  
-----------------
 	Peter Gardenfors 
	Department of Philosophy 
	Lund University, Sweden

		and

	Hans Rott
	Department of Philosophy
	University of Konstanz, Germany

ORGANISING COMMITTEE:
--------------------
Norman Foo (Co-chair) 	University of Sydney	norman@karl.cs.su.oz.au
Aditya Ghose		University of Alberta	aditya@cs.ualberta.ca
Roderic Girle		Griffith University	rag@cit.gu.edu.au
Randy Goebel (Co-chair)	University of Alberta   goebel@cs.ualberta.ca
Scott Goodwin		University of Regina	goodwin@cs.uregina.ca
Abdul Sattar		Griffith University	sattar@cit.gu.edu.au
Mary-Anne Williams	University of Newcastle maryanne@frey.newcastle.edu.au



