From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!eddie.mit.edu!news.kei.com!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!cs.city.ac.uk!not-for-mail Tue Aug 10 12:23:15 EDT 1993
Article: 8262 of comp.lang.prolog
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.lang.prolog:8262
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!eddie.mit.edu!news.kei.com!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!cs.city.ac.uk!not-for-mail
From: drg@cs.city.ac.uk (David Gilbert)
Newsgroups: comp.lang.prolog
Subject: Workshop on concurrency in computational logic
Date: 10 Aug 1993 09:36:48 +0100
Organization: Computer Science Dept, City University, London
Lines: 73
Message-ID: <247mn0INNefh@toves.cs.city.ac.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: toves.cs.city.ac.uk
Keywords: concurrency  computational logic


                 Workshop on concurrency in computational logic

                               December 13-14 1993
                  Department of Computer Science, City University,
                             London, United Kingdom


Concurrency is a seminal topic in computer science, and is a research area
of growing importance in the computational logic community.  The
methodologies required to describe, reason about and construct such
systems encompass a wide range of viewpoints and some are still quite
recent in origin. It is the aim of this workshop to collect researchers
together in order to facilitate the exchange of ideas on concurrency in
computational logic. Contributions are invited on the following topics:

* system specification
* semantics and theory 
* language design
* programming methodologies
* program analysis and transformation
* programming environments

Submissions can be extended abstracts or full papers, and should be
limited to 15 pages.  Electronic submission is preferred, as either LaTeX
source or encapsulated postscript.  Research students are particularly
encouraged to make informal presentations of their research activities,
based around a brief abstract, or to submit contributions for a poster
display. 

Submissions should be sent to the following address and should be received
by 31 October 1993

Dr. D. Gilbert
Department of Computer Science,
City University
Northampton Square
London EC1V 0HB
UK

email: drg@cs.city.ac.uk

Proceedings will be distributed on an informal basis at the workshop to
encourage presentation of ongoing work. However, it is intended that selected
papers will be published in formal proceedings after the workshop.

This workshop is organised jointly by City University and the
University of Namur under the auspices of the Association of Logic
Programming (UK), the British Council (UK), and the Commissariat
General aux Relations Internationales (Belgium).

Programme committee:

Koen De Bosschere, University of Gent, Belgium
David Gilbert, City University, UK
Jean-Marie Jacquet, University of Namur, Belgium
Luis Monteiro, University of Lisbon, Portugal
Catuscia Palamidessi, University of Genova, Italy
Jiri Zlatuska, Masaryk University, Czech Republic


Important dates:

Deadline for paper submission: 31 October 1993
Notification for acceptance of presentation: 22 November 1993



-- 
D R Gilbert                                   tel:    +44-71-477-8444 (direct)
Department of Computer Science                fax:    +44-71-477-8587
City University, Northampton Square         email:    drg@cs.city.ac.uk
Northampton Square, London  EC1V 0HB, UK     uucp:    drg@citycs.uucp


