From Conrad_Geiger@NeXT.COM Mon Oct  5 10:11:56 1992
From: Conrad_Geiger@NeXT.COM (Conrad Geiger - Manager, International NeXT User Groups)
Newsgroups: comp.newprod
Subject: Trillium Sound Research Inc. Announces TextToSpeech Kits for NeXT
Date: 2 Oct 92 00:34:42 GMT
Followup-To: poster
Organization: Motorola Computer Group, Schaumburg, IL

September 10th, 1992
Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

Trillium Sound Research Inc. is now shipping Release 1.0 of the
User and Developer TextToSpeech Kits for the NeXT Computer.

The Developer TextToSpeech Kit enables developers to incorporate
text-to-speech capabilities into their applications quickly and
easily.  The Kit offers unrestricted text-to-speech conversion from
arbitrary text of any length.  The speech is synthesized on the DSP
chip in real-time, with full control over speaking rate, pitch,
intonation, volume, and stereo balance.

The User TextToSpeech Kit provides the functionality to support any
application which incorporates text-to-speech, on the end user's
computer.  It also includes PrEditor, an application which allows
users to customize pronunciations, and BigMouth, an application which
provides a text-to-speech service to any application which has a
Services menu.

The TextToSpeech Kit is integrated seamlessly into the NeXTSTEP
environment (both 2.x and 3.0).  It is implemented with a
client-server structure, which means that applications need link in
only a small amount of code for text-to-speech capability.  The
TextToSpeech Server supports up to 50 client connections at one time.
Since each connection can be configured differently, several
different sounding voices can exist at once.

Pronunciations are provided by a large Main Dictionary, plus optional
custom dictionaries created by the user and/or application developer.
A letter-to-sound algorithm gives pronunciations for neologisms and
rare or misspelled words.  Numbers, symbols, and abbreviations are
handled intelligently.

Contact Trillium regarding Developer and User Kit pricing.  Due to
the large size of the TextToSpeech Kit, a demo is not available,
but we do offer a 30 day money-back guarantee on single quantity
purchases.  All shipping is via air courier.

Developers may incorporate the TextToSpeech Object into their
application without any licensing fee.  Users must acquire a User (or
Developer) Kit along with the application.  This may be supplied by
the developer, or purchased by the user directly from Trillium.
Discounts are available to developers for bulk purchases of the
necessary Kits.


For a brochure, price schedule, and order form, contact Trillium
Sound Research at:

     email:   manzara@cpsc.UCalgary.CA
     tel:     (403)284-9278
     fax:     (403)282-6778
     mail:    Trillium Sound Research Inc.
              1500, 112 - 4th Avenue S.W.
              Calgary, Alberta, Canada
              T2P 0H3

Be sure to include your name and surface mail address.

