Newsgroups: news.announce.newgroups,news.groups,comp.object,comp.lang.prolog
Subject: CFV: comp.object.logic

This is a formal Call For Votes for or against the creation of an
unmoderated Usenet newsgroup called "comp.object.logic".

PURPOSE 
The proposed newsgroup is intended to serve as a medium for discussing the
issues on Integrating the Object-Oriented and Logic Paradigms, with an
emphasis on Integrating OOP and LP.

RATIONALE
This topic is currently a rather hot one. There are at least 30 mergers of
OOP and LP proposed, 20 logic theories which model aspects of OOP, numerous
applications in Knowledge Representation and Deductive Object-Oriented
Databases.  Currently there is no newsgroup devoted to discussions about
the topic. Having one would promote exchange of information and the
development of the field.

CONTENT
The following topics would be appropriate for the newsgroup:
-languages integrating the two paradigms
-logics for different aspects of OOP:
	-encapsulation
	-inheritance
	-mutable state
	-message passing
	-modularity
-implementations of OOP in LP, LP in OOP etc.
-using OOP+LP for knowledge representation
-applications built on integrated paradigms
-applications which would benefit from integrated paradigms
-etc

The newsgroup is not intended specifically for discussion of Concurrent
Logic Programming, Actor languages, Deductive Object-Oriented Databases,
Constraint Logic Programming, etc. but probably it can accomodate some
articles on these topics as well.

VOTING PROCEDURES
In order to vote, send a message to 
        vladimir@cs.ualberta.ca 
containing in the Subject: line either `yes' or `no' and at least one of
`object', `logic', `OOP', `LP' and `oolog', for example
        Subject: I vote YES for object.logic
Letter case does not matter.
If you suspect that either your name or address do not appear correctly in
the From: field, include them in the body of your letter.
  The voting period will be from March 30 until April 30, 1993. This
message will be posted three times during the period. Only votes received
during the period will be counted. No more than one vote from the same
address can be sent. Votes posted to a newsgroup will not be counted.

VOTE OUTCOME
In accordance with the traditions of the Usenet, the newsgroup will be
created only if more than 2/3 of the voters vote YES _and_ 100 persons more
vote YES than NO (though in this case I'd love if these criteria were
weaker :-).

Vladimir Alexiev <vladimir@cs.ualberta.ca>
