
Stiquito:  A Small Nitinol-Propelled Hexapod Robot

The Computer Science Department's Robotics Laboratory at Indiana 
University (Bloomington) has designed, built, and tested 
"Stiquito," a six-legged robot that you customize by adding 
sensors, controllers, power sources, etc.  The robot provides an 
inexpensive platform to study computational sensors, subsumption 
architectures, neural gait control, emergent cooperative behavior, 
and machine vision.  It is currently being used for research at 
IU, and, at a ratio of one robot per student, in "VLSI for 
Robotics" and "Machine Learning" classes.

Stiquito is small (3cm H x 7cm W x 6cm L) and simple (32 parts) 
because its legs are propelled by nitinol actuator wires.  Each 
leg has one degree of freedom.  The robot walks up to 10 
centimeters per minute and can carry a 9-volt cell, a MOSIS "tiny 
chip" and power transistors to drive the nitinol actuator wires. 
Alternatively, power and control can be supplied through a tether.

A single robot costs between $10 and $30. The pro-rated cost of 
materials to construct robots in volume (200 or more) is less than 
$3. The design can be replicated to build complex arthropods, or 
colonies containing hundreds of insectoid robots.

IUCS Technical Report 363a, "Stiquito:  A Small, Simple, 
Inexpensive Hexapod Robot -- Part 1.  Locomotion and Hard-Wired 
Control" contains detailed instructions to build the robot and a 
hard-wired, manually-operated controller.  The instructions are 
illustrated with 80 life-sized figures that include dimensions and 
enlarged details.  Materials, tools, and vendors are listed. 
Special sections include construction skills for novice users, how 
to fix mistakes, and troubleshooting problems found in real-world 
experience with the robot.

Stiquito and its manual controller are assembled by crimping and 
press-fitting parts.  No soldering is necessary.  The resulting 
robot is very reliable.  A tethered Stiquito walked for over 100 
hours. During the test each leg made 300,000+ 2-3mm strokes. The 
leg movement was reduced because power was supplied during the 
test by a 6v AC/DC adapter.  With a 6v "J" battery typical leg 
movement is 3-7mm. Battery-powered leg movement was unchanged 
after the test.

Anyone may build and use Stiquitos in any quantity for educational 
or research purposes, but Indiana University reserves all rights 
to commercial applications.  Part 1 of the technical report is now 
available and can be obtained in two ways:

1. ELECTRONICALLY
-----------------

    Use anonymous ftp to obtain the technical report free.  IU's
    ftp site is:

         cs.indiana.edu

    Log in as "anonymous" with username@host or "guest" as a
    password.

    The report will be in one or the other of two directories:

         pub/
         pub/techreports

    The report is available in two formats:

         stiquito.ps.a{a,b,c}.Z (PostScript)
	 stiquito.w4.a{a,b,c}.Z (Macbinary Word 4 for IBM PC users)
         stiquito.hqx (stuffed, binhexed Microsoft Word 4 for Mac)

    Unfortunately, some of the illustrations in the PostScript
    file print with minor errors (patterns missing, and some
    polygons deformed), but they are still understandable.

    Some users have trouble printing large postscript files.  These
    files are 1.2 Mb+.  Some postscript printers will not print the
    files, even though the Macintosh library routines are prepended
    on the .ps. file. 

    E-mail for a FREE copy of the tech report if you can't get the
    file to print.



2. BY MAIL (with options for a kit and a videotape)
---------------------------------------------------

     Send your request for the report with payment to:

         Computer Science Department
         215 Lindley Hall
         Indiana University
         Bloomington, Indiana, 47405

     To receive the technical report only send $5 US PRE-PAID and
     add the following line to the address:

         ATTN: TR 363a

     To receive the technical report and a kit containing all
     materials needed to construct Stiquito and its manual
     controller send $15 US PRE-PAID.  Add the following line to
     the address:

         ATTN: TR 363a Stiquito Kit

     The kit alone is available for $10 US PRE-PAID. Add the
     following line to the address:

         ATTN: Stiquito Kit

     The charges cover materials, a kitting fee, the technical
     report, and mailing.   The kit is provided as a non-profit
     service by Indiana University.  The author receives no fee or
     reimbursement from the sale of the kit.

     The CS department has also videotaped the assembly of a
     Stiquito (including the author making some mildly 
     embarrassing mistakes during construction! :-).  It is
     available separately for an additional $10 US PRE-PAID.
     Just add VIDEO to the attention line.

     For example, if you purchased the TR, kit, and video then
     $25 US would be enclosed and the following line would be
     added to the address:

         ATTN: TR 363a Stiquito Kit VIDEO

The kit has been modified to include MORE materials at NO extra cost
to be more forgiving if you make a mistake.  A benefit if you DON'T
make a mistake is that two kits will produce THREE robots, leaving
extra 9v cell terminals.

Part 2 of the technical report, "Sensors and Controllers," is in 
preparation.  It describes analog and digital controllers, legged 
Braitenburg vehicles, and sensor and communicatons interfaces to 
Stiquito.  Part 3 of the technical report, "Experiments with 
Arthrobots," will describe a variety of arthropod robots and 
report on experiments in emergent cooperative behavior using a 
colony of Stiquitos.

Questions about Stiquito should be sent to jwmills@cs.indiana.edu.

There are many different ways to design smaller, larger, or
multiple-degree-of-freedom nitinol-propelled robots, legs, 
tentacles, grippers, etc.  Some we've tried, most we haven't. We 
hope you will be encouraged to use Stiquito as a stepping-stone to 
better and more effective miniaturized robots.


------------------------------------------------------------------
This research was funded in part by NSF Grant MIP-9010878 
"Lukasiewicz Logic Arrays" awarded to J.W. Mills, and NSF Grant 
CDA-8852304 "Incubator Laboratory Development" awarded to D. 
Gannon, G. Rawlins, and J. Smith.  NSF's support is gratefully 
acknowledged.  Standard disclaimer for opinions, etc. expressed in 
this posting.
------------------------------------------------------------------
- J. W. Mills                                           "Sic ago!"
In article <1992Sep24.113622.24133@news.cs.indiana.edu> I wrote:
>
>     Send your request for the report with payment to:
>
>         Computer Science Department
>         215 Lindley Hall
>         Indiana University
>         Bloomington, Indiana, 47405
>
>     [various options & prices deleted]

Please make checks or money orders out to "Indiana University."  It is
not a good idea to send cash, although some persons have explained
they have no other choice.  Please include payment with your request.

The university isn't set up to bill through credit cards for small
projects like this, nor can purchase orders be processed easily or
in a timely fashion.  If you want to use a purchase order, the best
way is to have your organization's purchasing department write a
check for you to send.

Don't worry about currency fluctuations, we'll send your kit if the
amount is close.  (After all, the money markets change every few
minutes, and the point is to get a robot to you as quickly as possible.)

Everything is shipped First Class in the US, and Airmail elsewhere,
so the TRs & kits should arrive reasonably quickly.  Federal Express
is possible if you pay for it, but costs as much as or more than the
robot.  I'd advise against it.  If you need a robot quickly, ftp the
TR, print page 3 (the materials list), and head on down to your local
hobby shop.

I'd like to repeat my apology for the problem about the PostScript
file.  It was (and is) huge -- over 1.2 Mb --, so I split it and
compressed it.  The files are in /pub as:

	stiquito.ps.aa.Z  (uncompress & cat to recover)
	stiquito.ps.ab.Z
	stiquito.ps.ac.Z

The PostScript files now have the Mac PS libraries prepended to
them so anyone can print them on (hopefully) any PostScript printer.
A UNIX-compressed MacBinary Word 4 version is also available for
those running Word on IBM PCs/clones:

	stiquito.w4.aa.Z  (uncompress, cat, and uudecode to recover)
	stiquito.w4.ab.Z
	stiquito.w4.ac.Z

Be sure to set ftp to binary before retrieving these files!

The stuffed & binhexed Word 4 document is still available as:

	stiquito.hqx

which is a _text_ file, not a binary.

Please send me e-mail if you have questions that aren't answered,
and I'll respond as quickly as I can.  I'm looking forward to
seeing clever and innovative designs for miniature robots.  If
there's enough interest, maybe even a nitinol-fueled Stiquito
dragster race at Mark Tilden's BEAM robot olympics.  Let's see,
how to build a nitinol-propelled robot grasshopper...

------------------------------------------------------------------
- J. W. Mills                                           "Sic ago!"


From: nagle@netcom.com (John Nagle)
Subject: Re: Stiquito, A Small Nitinol-Propelled Robot

       The document describes a rather simple version of the thing.
The "robot kit" actually yields a six-legged device with the three legs
on each side tied together electrically.  The legs advance in a rachet-like
fashion, under the control of a pair of manually-operated pushbuttons.
References are made to future VLSI-controlled versions, but that's not
what you get.

       A $100 kit with more smarts would be much more interesting.

					John Nagle

In article <ws!p8+=.nagle@netcom.com> nagle@netcom.com (John Nagle) writes:
>       The document describes a rather simple version of the thing.

John is correct.  Stiquito _is_ very simple, but was intended to be
simple.  This is because we planned to, and are, using the robot in
volume ("ant colony").  Effort was made to make the walking part
buildable by students who might not have much mechanical expertise.
A consequence is that this "robot" will not compare favorably to
those with multiple-degree-of-freedom legs, or sophisticated grippers,
etc.  On the other hand, Stiquito is a good starting point to use
to investigate nitinol-actuated devices.

A more complex predecessor, "Sticky," has legs with two degrees of
freedom, nitinol actuators inside the body tubing, and can carry
6 to 8 ounces.  It is correspondingly more complex, and gains
structural stability with modularity at the expense of complexity.
Although Sticky can be assembled by hand, and disassembled with a
bent paper clip, it resembles a Chinese puzzle.  I'll be glad to
send photographs of Sticky, or perhaps digitized photos of a
disassembled robot, with the assembly sequence, that could be used to
show how to make one.  The cost of Sticky, minus electronics, is
about $20.  Sticky + miniboard may be more what the robotics
community currently expects.  I'll help all I can to satisfy that
expectation.


>The "robot kit" actually yields a six-legged device with the three legs
>on each side tied together electrically.  The legs advance in a rachet-like
>fashion, under the control of a pair of manually-operated pushbuttons.

Again, John is correct.  However, the legs do not have to be
hard-wired in a tripod gait.  As is, the kit can be used to experiment
with other gaits.  The manual controller is also useful to verify that
the legs work.  And, sad experience with early oscillator circuits
that powered the legs for too long, damaging them, led me to build the
manual controller so I could check the robot out quickly.


>References are made to future VLSI-controlled versions, but that's not
>what you get.

This is true.  The technical report, TR 363a, is one of a series of
reports on work with these robots.  Please accept my very sincere
apologies if you feel you have been mislead.  I pointed out in the
original post that you had to add a controller, etc.  I understand
the disappointment that Stiquito doesn't do more than it
does, but I have also received very encouraging notes from
others who plan to use Stiquito-clones in their research.  Don't
give up yet because...

A mailing list is being set up by folks at UC Berkeley to monitor
advances in projects, designs, and answer FAQs about Stiquito-style
robots.  Subscribe to this list (instructions should be posted soon),
and you'll get all the news as it breaks.

I plan to post descriptions of the VLSI circuits that John mentioned
within a few months in a draft of TR 363b (please note the "b"),
"Sensors and Controllers."  Other circuits will be posted next week.

Already built and tested is a Braitenburg Bug based on Stiquito that
is phototropic, and programmable as either a photophil or a
photophobe.  It uses two independent oscillators driven by photo-
transistors.  The photo-transistors can be placed in the circuit
to make it stroke-length-variable, or stroke-rate-variable.  The
circuits are similar to the incandescent lamp flasher found on
page 17 of Forrest M. Mims III pamphlet "Engineer's Mini-Notebook
Optoelectronics Circuits" available from Radio Shack as catalog
number 276-5012.  Although nitinol is similar to the tungsten
filament on a lamp, there are three legs to consider:  add extra
2N2222's, one for each leg, to avoid overheating.  Be sure to
hook up the legs before powering the circuit or you risk damaging
the transistors.  Be very careful that the circuit oscillates
slowly, or you may damage the legs.

Almost finished and next to be tested is an IBM PC interface that
can drive Stiquito from a serial port.  It may be possible to drive
Stiquito, each leg independently, from a PC parallel port.  I haven't
tried it yet, so check the load imposed on the port as a whole if
all six legs are driven at once:  that will draw about 1.2 amps, more
than the port may source.

The VLSI circuits John mentioned are the topic of current research.
The first types are field-programmable gate arrays from Actel that
my students and I are using to implement frequency-modulated
controllers for the robot. The idea is to sense light and pressure
then use the inputs to generate trains of pulses at intervals to
cause the legs to walk at different rates, turning the robot, moving
it backwards, etc.  The legs have ratchet feet angled in different
directions so the robot can walk backwards, sideways, etc.

The second type of VLSI circuits are custom analog circuits
fabricated through MOSIS.  They are called "Lukasiewicz Logic Arrays,"
and have been the topic of my research since 1990.  I built the robots
as a platform to work with these circuits.  These "LLAs" use a
continuous-valued logic that can be interpreted as both a logic and
an algebra.  Using the algebraic interpretation, LLAs act as single-
transistor directed differentiators.  Using the logical mode, the
LLAs can be used to build fuzzy inference engines.  Both modes use
the same device structure.  In my paper that appeared in the 1992
22nd Symposium on Multiple-Valued Logic ("Area-Efficient Implication
Circuits for Very Dense Lukasiewicz Logic Arrays), a simple but fast
silicon retina was briefly described that used one transistor per
pixel as the computational element.  The rest of the computation was
done with wire.  Using LLAs, and a fuzzy controller I simulated this
summer, my next step is to put both on a MOSIS tiny chip, and use it
to drive Stiquito as a Braitenburg Bug that responds to more complex
patterns, such as textures.

But until the thing walks and follows a texture, it's vaporware.
I'd feel comfortable sending you published papers, but contact
me directly for reports on the LLA project.

>
>       A $100 kit with more smarts would be much more interesting.
>
>					John Nagle

Very, very true.  For now, the ftp access to the report is working.
Try building a Stiquito, (the sources of all materials, including
telephone numbers are listed in the technical report -- you DON'T
have to buy the kit by any means), subscribe to the mailing list,
and let your creativity flow.  And have fun, everybody here who has
seen Stiquito the Braitenburg Bug walk has immediately thought of
six impossible things to do before breakfast.

You can ftp in directly to the net address of cs.indiana.edu:

	129.79.254.191

There have been some connections broken due to timeouts.  I've split
and compressed the PostScript & raw Word 4 files, and will do the same
for the .hqx version if necessary. If you have problems with timeouts,
our net guru, Bruce Sheu, has kindly offered to help.  Send him mail
at shei@cs.indiana.edu.

To get the tech reports, connect using anonymous ftp.  The reports are
in /pub.  Set the ftp mode to binary to access the PostScript and raw
Word 4 files:

	stiquito.ps.aa.Z (restore with uncompress, cat)
	stiquito.ps.ab.Z
	stiquito.ps.ac.Z

	stiquito.w4.aa.Z (restore with uncompress, cat, uudecode
	stiquito.w4.ab.Z  to get a MacBinary Word 4 document)
	stiquito.w4.ac.Z


Here are answers to some questions on the report:

Does the robot walk autonomously using materials provided in the kit?

-No, but it is fairly easy to attach a small printed circuit board
 to the aluminum tubes that extend from the robot's back.  A draft
of Part 2 containing two transistorized oscillators controlled by
ECG 3034 phototransistors will be posted sooner than I'd expected, due
to these requests.  These circuits, and a 9-volt cell, turn Stiquito
into a legged Braitenburg photophilic or photophobic bug.

What is nitinol wire?

-Nitinol, sold under various tradenames (BioMetal, Flexinol) is an
almost-50-50 alloy of nickel and titanium that changes between two
crystalline structures as it is heated and cooled.  It can exert
useful force during the transitions, and make as many as 5,000,000
transitions before it ceases to work (maybe more).  Passing a current
through nitinol generates enough heat to cause it to contract.  A
spring or other force is necessary for the wire to expand back to its
original longer length when it cools.  Nitinol can be manufactured
in many shapes (eyeglasses, braces for teeth, etc.), but the cost
of special-forming is said to be high, how high I don't know.  The
wire costs $10 per meter from Dynalloy, Inc., Mondo-Tronics, & 
a few other manufacturers, but drops to $5.50 in 101 meter lengths.

The September-October issue of "Midnight Engineering" has a cover
photograph of a similar nitinol-propelled robot developed
independently by Roger Gilbertson of Mondo-Tronics.  I think that
Stiquito looks a little sleeker, but then I'm predjudiced! 
In article <ws!p8+=.nagle@netcom.com> nagle@netcom.com (John Nagle) writes:

   References are made to future VLSI-controlled versions, but that's not
   what you get.

furthermore, with a 50 GRAM payload, it is going to be hard to put
enough batteries on the beast to take more than a few steps.  tethered
operations are more interesting.

people should also note the 10cm per minute walking speed.


    The document describes a rather simple version of the thing.  The
    "robot kit" actually yields a six-legged device with the three legs on
    each side tied together electrically.  The legs advance in a
    rachet-like fashion, under the control of a pair of manually-operated
    pushbuttons.  References are made to future VLSI-controlled versions,
    but that's not what you get.

I too was somewhat disappointed by the simplicity of the "robot" described,
even though I had already noticed the 20 cm/minute walking speed.

Further consideration tempered by reaction.  It's a neat device.
Furthermore, most "biometal" kits selling for about $30 and contain an inch
or two of nitinol wire.  The stiquito kit, with about 16 inches of wire, is
a "good deal".  (eg you get what you pay for, but that's not so bad...)
Stiquito (as described) is a clever mechanical engineering hack, with
interesting posibilities.


    A $100 kit with more smarts would be much more interesting.

To some.  I think that Mr Mills, and Indiana U, ought to contact that
toy company with all the neat "robot" kits.  There's money to be made.

I am curious about a couple of points:

	1) My Flexinol(tm) price list says the .004 inch wire used
	   by stiquito is "Special order".  Was it just left over from
	   "Sticky", or is there more behind the choice?

	2) Since the instructions imply that a 3V power source can
	   overheat the wire, using a 9V battery for the demo controller
	   seems perilous indeed.


>	1) My Flexinol(tm) price list says the .004 inch wire used
>	   by stiquito is "Special order".  Was it just left over from
>	   "Sticky", or is there more behind the choice?

Dynalloy and Mondo-Tronics sell evaluation kits containing Flexinol(tm)
in a variety of diameters.  Of the wires tested by building legs,
the .004" diameter wire drove the leg reliably, even when the leg
was held with pliers, without overstressing the wire.  The wire consumed
between 180-220 mA of current, acceptable for battery operation.
It was also easier (for me) to knot the .004" wire than the smaller
wire, and the knots were tighter than with the .006" wire.

I have not tried doubling smaller wires, nor have I tried the .003"
wire.  Both alternatives should work, though.

Reporting on battery life for Stiquito, a fresh 6-volt Eveready
alkaline "J" battery drove the robot and the two oscillator circuits
continuously for 2 hours 25 minutes.  The robot walked in a circle
about 2 feet in diameter, but I didn't watch it the whole time so
I can't tell how far it went.  The walking rate did decrease, but
the sun was beginning to set, too, by 5:30, leaving the test site
in more shade than at the start.  While I did watch it, the robot
moved a measured 45cm in 5 minutes for a rate of 9cm/minute.


>
>	2) Since the instructions imply that a 3V power source can
>	   overheat the wire, using a 9V battery for the demo controller
>	   seems perilous indeed.
>

The report warns about this.  Single actuator wires should be tested
with 3v, but the hard-wired tripod, with three wires, can be operated
by _briefly_ closing the switch on the manual controller with a 9v
cell attached.  Don't continue to hold the switch down if nothing
appears to happen, because if the actuators are connected but
slack, they will overheat and be damaged.  The same thing may happen,
but is less likely, with a single wire and two fresh AA cells.



Article 3405 of comp.robotics:
Newsgroups: comp.robotics
Path: news.cs.indiana.edu!sgiblab!swrinde!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!convex!constellation!a.cs.okstate.edu!rjs
From: rjs@a.cs.okstate.edu (STOLFA ROLAND JOSE)
Subject: Neat idea
Message-ID: <1992Oct26.143400.11545@a.cs.okstate.edu>
Organization: Oklahoma State University, Computer Science, Stillwater
Date: Mon, 26 Oct 92 14:34:00 GMT
Lines: 72

Neter's,

I have been struck with the inventive spirit.  I have the following
proposal for all of you who are interested...

We've all heard of the micromouse competition.  Most of us have heard
of the BEAM robotics competitions (mwtilden, et.al.).  Some of us have
heard of the "Stiquito" (J. W. Mills).  Ok, let's put it all together...

I propose to have a teathered stiquito micromouse (bug?) maze competition.
Here is how I propose to do it:

1.	The playing field be a simple sheet of black flocking paper
	(used on the inside of some telescopes, available at photo
	shops & Edmond) as the base, non-IR reflecting surface.  The maze
	path (not walls) are placed on this surface with the aluminium
	tape that is used for detecting broken glass windows in
	security installations at spacing's to be determined later.

2.	The stiquito would be teathered to a simple controller above it.
	This would allow quite a bit of computational power, without
	the need for masive lightness.  Ie. you could even use your
	latest greatest PC (notebook Spark station, yea....  :-) to
	drive this thing.

3.	Some of the sensors that would be allowed would be:

	A.	some simple array of IR detectors/emmiters, slung
		under the Stiquito.
	B.	Simple grouding strip to the aluminum tape? 
	C.	Any other BEAM type ideas (yea, keep it simple :-).
		Ideas???

	General idea is that ALL of the sensors must be carried by
	the stiquito...

Uniqueness points for this project:

1.	Fairly low cost.  I'll be more than willing to flesh out the
	rules for all of this, if there is interest.  Given the right
	conditions, this could even be strictly a programming project
	(provided a PC, a stiquito, and a simple interface).  Ie. you
	could build your own, test your code, and then mail your software
	entry to some central "competition" site.

2.	The first "legged" micromouse competition.  The rolling mice have
	been around for quite some time.  Here is a new direction, with
	it's own NEW challanges, that we can all start on a level playing
	field.

3.	Given that the "interface" to the PC could be activated from any
	PC language (even BASIC), this whole system might be a good one
	for getting youngsters involved (even junior high types).

Research intrests involved:

1.	Yet further research into legged locomotion.

2.	Fairly easy system to deal with new control systems software.
	I guess you could even try out subsumption control systems;

Ok, I"ll volunteer to referre this thing.  Just send your ideas to
"rjs=smm@a.cs.okstate.edu", and if there is any response, I'll do my
best to fully flesh out the rules, etc.

Oh, and by the way, hats off to Jonathan Mills for the Stiqutio design
(really neat) and the BEAM-team (Mark Tilden & ???) for their concepts
that glued all of these ideas together for me.  Great job everybody!!!
Keep those neat ideas comming.

Roland Stolfa
rjs@a.cs.okstate.edu


From: "Jonathan Mills" <jwmills@cs.indiana.edu>
To: stiquito@xcf.Berkeley.EDU
Subject: DRAFT TR363b Part 2 Available Jan 15
Cc: jwmills@cs.indiana.edu
Status: R


TR363b, Stiquito: Part 2, Sensors and Controllers, will be available
from anonymous ftp to cs.indiana.edu *after January 15, 1993*

The report describes controllers built during the the fall 1992 VLSI
seminar at Indiana University.  The report is available in draft until
a few late projects are received.  The projects listed in the report
are accompanied (where appropriate) by additional design files that
can be ftp'd and used to burn your own FPGA gait controllers.  Or, use
the files as "parts bins" to design new controllers.

Contents as of January 1, 1993:

Stiquito, A Platform for AI.........................M. Scott
Transistorized Controllers..........................J. Mills
General-Purpose Controller (FPGA)...................S. Pullela
Parallel-to-Serial Controller Interface.............Hendry & Heininger
Parallel PC Interface...............................Heininger

"Real Soon Now" stuff:

Interfering Variable-Rate Clock Controller..........C. Reising
Two New Stiquito Designs............................J. Mills

Sincerely,
Jonathan


From: "Jonathan Mills" <jwmills@cs.indiana.edu>
To: stiquito@xcf.Berkeley.EDU
Subject: Lukasiewicz Logic in Feb'93 Sci Am
Cc: jwmills@cs.indiana.edu
Status: R


A readable and amusing introduction to Lukasiewicz logic (aka fuzzy logic)
and its relation to chaos is given in Ian Stewart's "Mathematical Recreations"
column.  Substitute position in a Cartesian coordinate system for "truth"
and the relationship between Lukasiewicz logic and a gait controller
will be apparent.  The controller has a family of stable limit cycles
which can be selected by forcing a starting position in the leg's trajectory
space.  Varied gaits emerge by inhibiting and activating combinations of
six legs (as on our project with the 2-dof Stiquito leg).  Gaits vary
within an inhibition-activation combination when noise is introduced,
causing the leg trajectory to switch to a new limit cycle.

A simulator with a "control panel" and graphic displays is available
that runs on a Mac under the WingZ 1.1 spreadsheet.  Look for:

        legs.hqx

in the ftp public directory at cs.indiana.edu *after January 15, 1993*

Sincerely,
Jonathan

