From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!bounce-bounce Tue Aug 10 12:22:45 EDT 1993
Article: 8253 of comp.lang.prolog
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.lang.prolog:8253
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!bounce-bounce
From: spiro@cis.ohio-state.edu (Spiro Michaylov)
Newsgroups: comp.lang.prolog
Subject: ILPS Workshop on Global Compilation
Date: 9 Aug 1993 16:57:08 -0400
Organization: The Ohio State University Dept. of Computer and Info. Science
Lines: 70
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <246dn4INNbft@daisy.cis.ohio-state.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: daisy.cis.ohio-state.edu


The following is a copy of the original call for participation for 
the ILPS workshop on Global Compilation. Due to some technical problems 
with sending and posting reminders, the deadline has been extended to 
August 16th.

Spiro Michaylov and Will Winsborough.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   Call for Participation

               Workshop on Global Compilation
                  in conjunction with the
          International Logic Programming Symposium 
          October 26-30, 1993, Vancouver, BC, Canada


Concern about the performance of logic programming systems has lead
many researchers to study global program analysis techniques such as
abstract interpretation.  Some encouraging work has demonstrated the
usefulness of applying global analysis to compilation.  Owing in part
to the technical nature of many of the analysis techniques, there has
been a tendency for researchers to focus either on analysis techniques
or on code generation and execution strategies.  The objective of this
workshop is to provide an opportunity for greater interaction between
researchers with these different focuses.  An additional objective is
to allow cross-fertilization from work on other programming paradigms,
such as functional programming.

Topics may include but are not limited to analysis techniques and
frameworks, efficiency of analysis, multiple specialization, avoiding
code explosion, variable and structure sharing, single-threaded
analysis, free variable analysis, and interaction with language
features and execution strategies.

Abstracts should be send to the
address below:

             Will Winsborough
             Department of Computer Science
             Pennsylvania State University
             333 Whitmore Laboratory
             University Park, PA 16802, USA

             +1 (814) 863 3600 voice
             +1 (814) 865 3176 fax
             winsboro@cs.psu.edu

             [ Will Winsborough will be unavailable by telephone 
               during July. Send e-mail or contact Spiro Michaylov
               on +1 (614) 292 6377 ]

Abstracts should be no more than 8-10 pages in length, and there is no
restriction on the format to be used. However, Latex/Tex/dvi/ps format is
preferred, particularly styles similar to those used for submissions and/or
camera-ready copy for the main conference. Submission by email rather than
printed copies is strongly encouraged. 

Copies of all accepted abstracts will be distributed to participants at the
workshop. In order to provide continued access to the abstracts presented
at the workshop, the proceedings will be available as a Pennsylvania State
University technical report.

Submission Deadline:       August 1, 1993 
Notification Sent:         August 31, 1993
Final Manuscript Due:      September 30, 1993

Organizing Committee: Spiro Michaylov, William Winsborough



From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!mcsun!Germany.EU.net!ecrc!mireille Tue Aug 10 17:57:32 EDT 1993
Article: 8271 of comp.lang.prolog
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.lang.prolog:8271
Newsgroups: comp.lang.prolog
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!mcsun!Germany.EU.net!ecrc!mireille
From: mireille@ecrc.de (Mireille Ducasse)
Subject: ILPS'93- List of Posters
Message-ID: <CBJqI9.MIG@ecrc.de>
Sender: news@ecrc.de
Organization: European Computer-Industry Research Centre GmbH, Munich, Germany
Date: Tue, 10 Aug 1993 13:51:45 GMT
Lines: 205


				   
		      ACCEPTED POSTERS - ILPS'93
				   
	      INTERNATIONAL LOGIC PROGRAMMING SYMPOSIUM
				   
		 Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
			 26 - 29 October 1993
				   
	  Sponsored by the Association of Logic Programming,
     Simon Fraser University, and the University of Pennsylvania.




** Program analysis and transformation

Enhancement Structures for Proving Prolog Programs Correct
M. Kirschenbaum, L, Sterling

Logic Program Specialisation With Deletion of Useless Clauses
D.A. de Waal, J.P. Gallagher

Automated Derivation of Efficient Logic Programs by Synthesizing Eureka Properties
K. Bsaies

Termination of Logic Programs via Equivalent Rewrite Systems
G. Aguzzi, U. Modigliani

Relational Groundness Analysis for Logic Programs
K. Sohn

Building Large-Scale Prolog Programs using a Techniques Editing System
M. Vargas-Vera, W. Vasconcelos, D. Robertson


** Negation

Subset Assertions and Negation As Failure
M. Osorio, B. Jayaraman

A Prototype System for Equational Constructive Negation
A. Mora, J. Piris, M.-J. Ramirez, M. Falaschi

Assumption Set Semantics
J.N. Aparicio

Contradiction Resolving for Extended Logic Programs and Default Theories
J.-H. You, L.Y. Yuan

Automated Reasoning About Actions: A Logic Programming Approach
V. Lifschitz, N. McCain, H. Turner

Back to the Future: Program Completion, Revisited
R. Ben-Eliyahu

Completeness of SLDNF-Resolution for Non-Floundering Queries
W. Drabent

The Essential Inadequacy of Deductions in Logic Programming
H.C. Wasserman, K. Yukawa, Z. Shen


** Databases

Polynominal Time Computable Stable Models
L. Palopoli, C. Zaniolo

Id Est, A Logic Based Framework for Direct Manipulation Systems
E.D. Shilcrat

Goal-directed Bottom-up Evaluation of Normal Logic Programs
U. Nilsson

Evaluation of Regular Nonlinear Recursive Programs
J. Han, L.V.S. Lakshmanan

Generating Goals and Their Use In Recursive Query Processing
V. Berry, P. Ezequel

A Prolog-Based Definition of an Entity Relationship Language
H.C. Chan,  K.L. Siau

A Proof Procedure for Default Theories with Extensions
M.D. Barback, J. Lobo

Goal-Directed Evaluation of Well-Founded Sematics for XSB
W. Chen, T. Swift, D.S. Warren


** Implementation, compilation

An Efficient Specialization of the WAM for Continuation Passing Binary Programs
P. Tarau

The Beauty and the Beast Algorithm
A. Podelski, P. Van Roy

Extending the WAM for HiLog
R. Paterson-Jones, P.T. Wood

On the Direct Parameter Passing Mechanism for Prolog Compilers
N.-F. Zhou


** Constraints

Concurrent Constraint Automata
L. Fribourg, M. Veloso Peixoto

Incremental Equational Constraint Analyses
M. Alpuente, M. Falaschi, G. Vidal

On the Denotational  and Logical Semantics of CLP-Modules
J. Xu, B. McDonald, M. Epstein, J. Durand, E. Freeman 

Handling Quadratic Constraints through Geometry
G. Pesant, M. Boyer

Optimizing Constraint Processing in CLP(FD)
G. Sidebottom

Solving a real life exams problem using CHIP
P. Boizumault, Y. Delon, L. Peridy


** Parallelism and concurrency

Turbo Erlang
B. Hausman

A Distributed Parallel LP System
W. Li, Z. Lin

Blackboard-based Extensions for Parallel Programming in BinProlog
K. De Bosschere, P. Tarau

L2||O2: A Concurrent Object-oriented Logic Language
E. Pimentel


** Higher order

Fixpoint Semantics of L$\lambda$
M. Martelli, A. Messora, C. Palamidessi

An Intuitionistic Resolution Method for a Language Dealing with Scope Constraints
A. Hui Bon Hoa

Definite Clause Grammars for Parsing Higher-Order Syntax
A. Felty


** Extensions

The Soundness and Completeness of a Temporal Extension of Logic Programming
M. A. Orgun

Disjunction In Resource-Oriented Deductive Planning
S. Bruening, S. Hoelldobler, J. Schneeberger, U.C. Sigmund, M. Thielscher

The Incorporation of Logic Formalisms to Natural Language Through Logic Programming
L. Moreno, M. Palomar, A. Molina

Prolog Interpretation of A Functional-Logic Language
S. Takahashi, F.S.K. Silbermann

Combining Lazy Narrowing and Normalization
M. Hanus

Logic and the Structure of Space- Towards a Visual Logic 
for Spatial Reasoning
B. Meyer

Temporal Reasoning for Temporal Information Retrieval From Text
I.P. Rodrigues, J.G. Lopes


** Resolution and proofs

A Bottom-Up Characterization of Finite Success
G. Delzanno, M. Martelli

On Goal-Directed Provability in Classical Logic
J. Harland 

The Ordered Clause Restriction of Model Elimination and SLI Resolution
B. Spencer

A $\pi$-calculus Specification of Prolog
Z. Li





-------------------------------------------------------------------
***** New address**** 			Starting September 1st, 1993

Mireille Ducasse'
INSA					email: ducasse@irisa.fr
Dept Informatique			phone: +33 99 28 64 00
20, av des Buttes de Coesmes		fax:   +33 99 63 67 05
F- 35043 Rennes Cedex
France


