Artificial Intelligence for Development 
Document No: AID/newsletter/number 5 
Last Modified and by whom: 14/2/92 kk  
Distributed on: 14/2/92 
 
Artificial Intelligence for Development Newsletter Number 5 February 1992 

  Contents 
  
  Report on Some AI Initiatives Around the World
  New project: Representing Indigenous Knowledge
  Call for information: AIDev Practical Applications
  News from around the world
  Conferences
  Groups, bulletin boards and mailing lists
  Contact Personnel

  Report on Some AI Initiatives Around the World 
  India 
With assistance from the United Nations Development Program, the
Indian government introduced a five year Knowledge Based
Computer Systems Project in 1986. Its main drive has been to finance
visits from AI workers from major laboratories around the world to
Indian KBS centres, and reciprocal visits by Indian KBCS workers,
particularly those in the early stages of their careers for training
in major AI centres abroad. The Ministry of Human Resource Development
has also started an Intelligent Systems Project as part of this
initiative. The Intelligent Systems project has multiple institutions
participating throughout the country; a project on Machine Translation at
the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, a Masters Degree in AI and
Robotics being taught at the Central University in Hyderabad,  a
post-graduate diploma programme in KBCS taught at the National
Centre for Software Technology, Bombay and the Indian Institute of
Management, Calcutta and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur
are involved in projects on intelligent search.  

  China 
Work in AI began in the early 1960s in China, although it is only since
the 1970s, when computer science departments focussed on the problems
of improvement in production process control that AI really got off
the ground. It is not clear whether there is a national AI program,
but there are projects in many areas of application in AI in China. In
the area of Natural Language Understanding there is  the English-Chinese
Automated Translation (ECTA) system and some other machine translation
projects. Work in Theorem Proving is being undertaken at the Institute
of System Science, Academia Sinica. There has been successful
Expert Systems work in both traditional Chinese medicine (the General
Diagnosis System from the Shanghai Institute of Computing Technology)
and Western medicine, an expert control system for blast furnaces,
and expert assistance for cross-breeding programs for silkworms and
wheat. In education a mathematics training program, based on modelling
human problem solving, has been developed at Jinlin University and
there is robotics research at the Shenyang Institute of Automation.

  Brazil 
The Rio Scientific Centre in Brazil is responsible for all the
scientific research of IBM Brasil, and is associated with the Latin
American Technology Institute. In Artificial Intelligence, much of
their work focuses on expert systems research, with particular
projects on Knowledge Acquisition (developing a tool for knowledge
acquisition in equipment diagnosis), knowledge base management
(integrating AI and database techniques) and heuristic learning
(developing models for building `self-modifying' diagnostic expert
systems). Some projects are co-operative, such as the heuristic
learning system which is a collaborative project between the Rio
Scientific Centre and the Informatics Centre in Health Care, and
expert systems research in collaboration with a large manufacturing
company, Villares Industries. The Universidade de Campina Grande has a
strong AI team, teaching AI courses at undergraduate and postgraduate
level and with research specialists in expert systems, remote sensing
and numerical algorithms. They also have consultative and
collaborative profiles in industry and medicine. There is currently no
national AI program, although there is a government plan for a three
year national computer science initiative (PROTEM) due to commence in
March 1992, one of whose main thrusts is `Computer Science Theory and
Artificial Intelligence'. 

  International enterprises 
As well as individual countries' enterprises, there have been some
international initiatives towards encouraging AI for developing
countries. In 1989, the Royal Nepal Academy of Science and Technology
in Kathmandu, Nepal hosted the first International Conference on
Expert Systems for Development. A large binational AI project has been
undertaken collaboratively between Brazil and Argentina for the
dissemination of AI expertise, involving AI training courses, mainly
in expert systems techniques. In 1990 the AI for Development group was
set up at the University of Edinburgh with a global membership. Various
journals, mailing lists and bulletin boards such as VITA (Volunteers
in Technical Assistance), African Technology Forum, Computers in
Africa, Information Technology for Development and AI and Society
carry occasional articles concerning AI for developing countries. The
report of a panel on the use of microcomputers for developing
countries organised in 1988 by the Board on Science and Technology for
International Development (BOSTID) includes many applications of AI
including population programs, design and manufacture, civil
engineering and education.

  New project: Representing Indigenous Knowledge 
Local people possess a great deal of knowledge about their environment and
about suitable land management practices.   This knowledge can complement
external scientific knowledge.   However, there are considerable problems
in disseminating this indigenous knowledge to others who could benefit from
it, there are difficulties of integrating it with external scientific
knowledge, and there is a real danger that much of this knowledge will be
lost through social changes and the imposition of external solutions.
 
The aim of this research is to develop computer-based methods for eliciting,
testing and representing indigenous ecological knowledge, so that it can be
used for supporting sustainable agroforestry practices.
 
 The work involves collaboration between 6 institutions:
 - The School of Agricultural and Forest Sciences, University of Wales,
   Bangor, is responsible for overall co-ordination and management of 
   the project
 - The Department of Artificial Intelligence, and the Institute of Ecology
   and Resource Management at the University of Edinburgh are developing
   the formal methods for knowledge representation and the software for
   eliciting and reasoning with the indigenous knowledge.
 Each of the following four institutions is providing a Study Fellow who will
 spend most of his or her time in the home country, obtaining and structuring
 knowledge about a particular aspect of agroforestry practice, and some time
 in the UK for training in knowledge-based methods
 - Department of Biology, University of Chiang Mai, Thailand (mixed farming)
 - Faculty of Agriculture, University of Perdeniya, Sri Lanka (home gardens)
 - Division of Forestry and Beekeeping, Tanzania (trees in rangelands)
 - Pakribas Agricultural Centre, Nepal (production of browse for cattle).
  The project is funded by the UK Overseas Development Administration.

More information on this project is available from Mandy Haggith or
Robert Muetzelfeldt.

  Call for Information: AIDev Parctical Applications 
Here at the AIDev goup we are trying to set up a resource database, one
of whose elements is a list of all known AI systems which have been,
or are being, developed in or for developing countries (nothing like
having a modest aim!). We feel that such a database, especially if kept
up to date, provides an invaluable resource for those working in this
sort of area. 

If you have any information about any such system, however
fragmentary, we would be very pleased to hear about it. Please contact
Howard Beck through email or any other channel including as many as possible of
the following, and any other information:

Country of development 
Country of application 
Current status 
Trials information 
Source of funding 
AI tools or techniques used  
Implementation language 
Human language 
Area of application 
Associated literature 
Machine requirements of developed system

  News from around the world 
News from Zimbabwe:
The mail connection to the University of Zimbabwe in Harare should now
be `robust'. The mail software is elm + smail3.  The link is 2400 baud
dialup uucp to Rhodes University in South Africa.
The current configuration can support 8 terminals (excluding
the uucp dialup port).  The intention is to provide async terminal
access in various strategic departments, and to provide a terminal
cluster in the computer centre building for general use.
An attempt at setting up Usenet news was abandoned when it was
discovered that a 170mb SCSI disk drive would cost Zdollars24,000-00.

For more information send email to:  postmaster@zimbix.uz.zw  

There are two other nodes on the campus, hyaena.uz.zw (a 386 Xenix
system) and compsci.uz.zw (an NCR Tower system), but these are
experimental. 

  Conferences 
  Expert Systems and Development, 20-23 April 1992, Cairo,
Egypt 
This conference is organised by the Expert Systems for Improved Crop
Management Project (ECSICM).

Specific topics include:

Knowledge acquisition techniques, Knowledge representation and
reasoning, Machine learning, User interfaces, Expert systems tools,
Applications in agriculture, engineering, business, medicine, Impact
of using expert systems on society development, education, management,
Interfacing expert systems with other softwaretools (databases,
graphics, simulation models) 

Deadlines:

Up to 20 pp. manuscript by November 1st 1991 
Acceptance notices by January 1st 1992 
Camera ready copy by February 15th 1992

Papers should be sent to:

Dr. Ahmed Rafea 
Expert Systems for Improved Crop Management project (EGY/88/024) 
FAO Country Rep. Office 
P.O. Box 2223, Cairo, Egypt. 
Tel: (20)(2) 360 47 27 
Fax: (20)(2) 360 47 27 
Email: esic@egfrcuvx.bitnet

  Distributed Computing and Artificial Intelligence, 6-8 May
1992, Jos. Nigeria 
Specific topics include:

Distributed operating systems, Parallel computer systems (parallel
processing, multiprocessorcomputing, image signal processing,
animation and graphics), Fault tolerant systems, Neural networks,
Neuro-computing, Expert Systems, Applied distributed computing,
Databases, Robotics, Natural language systems, Software engineering
environments, Future trends in Distributed Computing and Artificial
Intelligence  

Deadlines:

Submission of 200-400 word abstracts in English, 30th Nov. 1991 
Notification of acceptance, 15th January 1992 
Submission of full-length paper, 29th February 1992

Further details from
   
Dr. Adebayo D. Akinde 
Dept of Computer Science 
Obafemi Awolowo University 
Ile-Ife, Nigeria 
Fax 01-831210

  International Conference CISNA 92, Windhoek, Namibia
6th-8th May 1992 

CALL FOR PAPERS: Information Technology: A vehicle for growth and development
 
Topics: Computers in education, Financial services in a changing era,
The process of software development, Constraints on information
technology - problems and solutions, Technology transfer - is it
happening?, Business efficiency - affected by information technology
or not, Telecommunications, Open systems and international standards,
Employment issues in information technology, Technology trends, Office
automation, Information technology and the environment, Computers in
medicine and health
 
 Abstracts should be submitted to:
   
     Mr J du Toit 
     Chairman - Conference organising committee 
     P O Box 2184 
     Windhoek 
     9000 
     Namibia
 
     Fax +264/61/36518 
     tel +264/61/34161
 
 TUTORIALS:

     Parallel to the papers, six tutorials will be given. Abstracts
     for these tutorials with inclusion of equipment needed are also
     invited. A tutorial is intended as an introduction to a specific
     field of general interest.
 
 DEADLINES:

       Abstracts                  : 15 November 1991 
       Notification of acceptance : 15 December 1991 
       Full camera ready paper    : 31 March 1992
 
 For abstract/tutorial submission form:
 
     Fax/telephone/write to Mr J du Toit 
     E-mail Conrad Mueller e-mail address 122cons@wits.witsvma.ac.za
 

  Toward a Truly Global Network 
A Section of the 36th Annual Meeting of the International Society for
the Systems Sciences.

University of Denver, Denver, colorado, USA, July 12-17, 1992

We wish broad participation, with papers from nuts-and-bolts to
the visionary.  Suitable topics include, but are not restricted
to:

Descriptions of networks, packet radio, satellite communication,
communication protocols, connection options, surveys of the current
state of affairs in global networking, descriptions of current
applications, descriptions of proposed applications, education in a
networked world, education for a networked world, social implications
of a global network, economic implications of a global network, haves
vs. have-nots, politics and funding for a global network, political
implications of a global network, free speech on the global network,
environmental implications of a global network, global networks in the
context of Gaian evolution, depictions of the global network in
science fiction. 

Deadlines:

   Notice of intention to participate, ASAP 
   Submission of paper, February 15, 1992 
   Notice of acceptance or rejection, March 15, 1992 
   Final, camera-ready copy due, May 1, 1992

Send 3 copies of your paper to:

   Professor Larry Press, 
 CSUDH, 10726 Esther Avenue, 
Los Angeles,  
CA  90064 
USA 
Tel: +(310) 475-6515 
Fax +(310) 516-3664 
Internet: lpress@venera.isi.edu
Tel: +468-663-6302.

  1st African Conference on Research in Computer Science,
Yaounde, Cameroon October 14-20, 1992 

TOPICS: Software engineering,   Parallel Computing, Scientific
Computation, Architecture, Databases, Networks, Computer Vision,
Artificial Intelligence, Programming Languages

INSTRUCTIONS TO AUTHORS

Authors are invited to submit, in French or in English, contributions on
their most recent research results.
5 copies of the full text (20 double-space pages, title and abstract
included) should be sent to the Conference Secretariat, before
February 15, 1992. The front page should include the title of the
communication, the name of the author (or authors) and the full address.
In case of co-authors, clearly indicate the name of the person in charge
of the correspondence with the organisers.
Every submitted paper will be reviewed by the Programme Committee with the
help of experts. The accepted papers will be published for the Conference.
A financial support (travel and sojourn expenses) will be granted to the
authors of the best papers.


Deadlines:

     February 15, 1992: full paper (5 copies) 
     May 1st, 1992: Notification of acceptance or refusal 
     June 15, 1992: Distribution of the program 
     June 30, 1992: Final version

INFORMATION
University of Yaounde 
Computer Science Department 
BP  812 
YAOUNDE (Cameroon) 
Tel : + 237 22 47 95 
Fax : + 237 22 13 20

Brigitte KERHERVE 
Ecole Nationale Superieure des Telecommunications 
46, rue Barrault 
75634 PARIS Cedex 13 
Tel: +(33) 1.45.81.78.81 
Fax: +(33) 1.45.81.31.19 
e-mail : kerherve@inf.enst.fr

  First International Working Conference on Health
Informatics in Africa (Provisional)  
HELINA'93, 19-23 April 1993, Ile-Ife, Nigeria.

Organized by International Medical Informatics Association (IMIA)
jointly with O.A.U. Teaching Hospitals Complex, Ile-Ife, Nigeria;
Computer Science Department, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife,
Nigeria; Computing Centre, University of Kuopio, Finland; and
prospective other co-organizers, co-sponsors and supporters.  

PROGRAMME AND TOPICS

The programme will cover the whole range of existing understanding and
experience on the field of computers in health care in Africa, from
Primary Health Care to hospitals and national planning, from records-
keeping to research and telecommunications. Researchers and reflective
practitioners throughout the continent will be drawn together. The
speakers will be the best experts in their respective topics. The
conference is thus an ideal opportunity for newcomers to get an
overview of the state of the art.
    Each session will start with a tutorial overview of the topic, and
end with a discussion summing up the theme. Practical country cases
from all parts of Africa are encouraged. A conversational and multi-
voiced mood is strived for. The conference also aims to establish a
network of researchers and practitioners who want to cooperate, share
their experiences, and learn from each other in the future also.
    Proceedings will be published by Elsevier North-Holland Publishers
under IMIA sponsorship.
    The official language will be English. If enough interest and
sponsoring will be found, simultaneous interpretation to and from
French will be provided for.

IMPORTANT DATES 
30 April 1992:      Deadline for letters of intent. 
31 July 1992:       Deadline for extended abstracts. 
September 1992:     Letters of acknowledgement sent. Final decision on
                    holding the conference depending on funding. 
30 November 1992:   Deadline for full texts of papers. 
19-23 April 1993:   HELINA'93 in Ile-Ife?

Please send all correspondence concerning registration, papers, and
funding to:-

Mikko Korpela/HELINA'93 
Univ. of Kuopio, Computing Centre 
P.O.Box 1627 
SF-70211 Kuopio 
FINLAND 
E-mail:     helina@uku.fi 
Telefax:    +358-71-225566 
Telex:      42218 kuy sf (Attn. HELINA'93)

  Groups, Bulletin Boards and Mailing Lists 
  Artificial Intelligence in Mexico and Latin America 
1. Cultural/geographical region: Mexico, Latin America

2. Description: a listserver devoted to the exchange of ideas and discussion
of practical applications of AI. It is located at the Instituto Tecnologico
y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey.

3. Service: listserver (IAMEX-L)

4. E-mail addresses:

-Subscriptions/information: (see additional information below) 
-Messages to the members: IAMEX-L@tecmtyvm.bitnet; 
                      or: IAMEX-L@tecmtyvm.mty.itesm.mx 
-Administrators: J. M. Gomez Puertos (PL500368@tecmtyvm); 
             or: F. Careaga Sanchez (PL57961@tecmtyvm)

5. Status: ACTIVE

6. Additional information: students and researchers with some experience
the field are eligible for membership. To subscribe, please send e-mail
to one of the administrators asking for the registration form.

  International Networking Task Force 

Sender: Technology Transfer in International Development, 
 
 
     As a first step toward the establishment of an
``International Networking Task Force'', we decided to create a
mailing list as a forum where our colleagues based in developing
countries could post their requests for help. The subscribers of
the list would either provide direct answers, or forward the
request to other persons able to answer.
     This list will be advertised and distributed to many remote
networks that are linked by expensive telephone lines. We should
therefore use this list strictly for the purposes for which it
was created, limiting activity to the minimum.
 
      At some point, if the traffic increases considerably, we
expect to split the list into several others which are more
"topic oriented". The subscription
process is not automated, partially to make it easier for us to
deal with addresses from developing areas.
 To subscribe, unsubscribe, or for other administrative requests:

   Send mail to intf-request@infoods.mit.edu.  

To post messages to the list 
   Send mail to intf@infoods.mit.edu
 
Please feel free to circulate the information about the list to
anyone you consider relevant.
 
John C. Klensin, Ph.D. 
klensin@infoods.mit.edu 
International Network of Food Data Systems 
  (A United Nations University project) 
MIT Room N52-457                       tel: +1 617 253 1355 
77 Massachusetts Avenue                fax: +1 617 491 6266 
Cambridge, MA 02139 USA
 
Enzo Puliatti 
puliatti@acfcluster.nyu.edu 
United Nations Development Programme 
One U.N. Plaza 2284                     tel: (212) 906 5426 
New York, NY 10017                       fax: (212) 906 5892


  Contact Personnel 
Please send contributions to the newsletter to Kathleen King. Send
requests for addition to the mailing list to Mandy Haggith. Email is
the communication method of choice 
(it takes so long to type the gubbins in) but communication through any
medium is welcome, especially if it contains contributions to the
newsletter!

Software library:       
Howard Beck   
Artificial Intelligence Applications Institute    
University of Edinburgh 
80 South Bridge   
Edinburgh EH1 1HN   
031 650 2747   
hab@uk.ac.ed.aiai   
 
Newsletter, overall co-ordination,meetings:   
Kathleen King 
Department of
Artificial Intelligence  
University of Edinburgh   
80 South Bridge 
Edinburgh EH1 1HN 
031 650 2726 
kk@uk.ac.ed.aisb 

Contacts and Funding:       
Robert Muetzelfeldt   
Department of Forestry and Natural Resources     
University of Edinburgh   
Kings Buildings   
Mayfield Road    
Edinburgh   EH9 3JU   
031 650 5408   
R.Muetzelfeldt@uk.ac.edinburgh   
 
Literature resource and bibliography:    
Ehud Reiter 
Department of Artificial Intelligence 
University of Edinburgh 
80 South Bridge 
Edinburgh 
EH1 1HN 
031 650 2728 
reiter@uk.ac.ed.aisb 

Mailing Lists:     
Mandy Haggith    
Department of Artificial Intelligence   
University of Edinburgh   
80 South Bridge   
Edinburgh   
EH1 1HN   
031 650 2721 
hag@uk.ac.ed.aisb   



