Legalities

We've tried to do a good job of getting the latest versions of code,
checking that we have the right to distribute them, copying them
accurately, etc.  But we're mortal; we have certainly made mistakes,
and you may be the lucky soul that finds one.  Please don't sue us; we
can't afford a lawsuit, and we don't have anything to give you, anyway.

Just tell us about the problem.  We'll fix it in the next release and
tell folks about it to limit the damage.  For your part, try to use
these packages as their owners (if any) have specified.  Don't make
Richard Stallman (FSF) angry at you; he'll picket you.  Don't make MIT
or CMU mad either; they probably have the bomb.  Just play nice, and we
can all enjoy these wonderful toys.

Now comes the difficult part.  The packages in this distribution are
all freeware, of one sort or another.  What about the distribution
itself, the doc files, the book, etc?  Can a freeware distribution have
(gasp) proprietary components?  Well, yes, it can, and does.

We claim ownership of everything in the distribution except the
packages themselves, about which we make *no claims whatsoever*, either
singly or collectively.  (PTF does not claim any form of "compilation
copyright" or any other copyright affecting the packages themselves.)
Thus, the book, annotation files, indices, and other things we have
added all belong to us.

On the other hand, we make only one real restriction on their use:
don't use them to make a competitive product.  Copy the distribution to
tape, post it to the net, serve it on archives, etc.  Do anything the
authors allow with the packages themselves.  Make as many copies of the
book as you like.

Just don't steal our added value to make a competing product.  We
wouldn't like it, it wouldn't help your name in the community, and
you'd end up playing catch-up with us after every new PTF release.
Besides, at our prices, is there really much room (or reason) for this
kind of competition?  We think not.  And now, to satisfy our
non-existent lawyers:

Trademarks, etc.

Various trademarks belong to various organizations and individuals.  If
you look into the packages, you will find specific statements on the
subject.  You will also find copyright notices and other legalistic
verbiage.  We have attempted to comply with these; go thou and do
likewise.  Portions of this distribution are copyright (c) 1992-1994,
Prime Time Freeware, San Bruno, CA.

Terms and Conditions

We provide this material AS IS.  We make no warranties of any kind,
whether expressed or implied, for the material contained in this book
and the accompanying discs.  We are not responsible for any damage of
any kind that may result from your use of this material.

USE OF THIS MATERIAL IS AT YOUR OWN RISK.  We specifically deny any
responsibility for the accuracy or quality of information contained in
this distribution.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, RETURN THE
DISTRIBUTION TO US OR DESTROY IT.
