From crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!gatech!concert!decwrl!parc!merkle Tue Jul 27 11:33:27 EDT 1993
Article: 18046 of comp.ai
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18046
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!gatech!concert!decwrl!parc!merkle
From: merkle@parc.xerox.com (Ralph Merkle)
Subject: Conference: Nanotech & Computers
Message-ID: <merkle.743720547@manarken>
Sender: news@parc.xerox.com
Organization: Xerox PARC
Date: 26 Jul 93 21:02:27 GMT
Lines: 264

SUMMARY: The first nanotechnology conference specifically for the computer
community will be held in Palo Alto on October 14-16.  It is designed for
those interested in what nanotechnology will do for the computer field and
in how to steer their careers toward nanotechnology today.  The meeting is
also of interest to those in other fields who want to learn more about
molecular nanotechnology, that is, about thorough three-dimensional
structural control of materials and devices at the molecular level.  For
further information, contact foresight@cup.portal.com.

ANNOUNCEMENT:

Third Foresight Conference on
Molecular Nanotechnology:
Computer-Aided Design of Molecular Systems

October 14-16, 1993
Palo Alto, California

Sponsor: Foresight Institute
Cosponsors: Stanford University Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Molecular Graphics Society (USA), Institute for Molecular
Manufacturing

Support for nanotechnology has always been strong -- perhaps strongest --
within the computer community.  The first nanotechnology course was taught
in a computer science department, the first conference was sponsored by the
same (along with Foresight Institute), the first Ph.D. was granted by a
computer-oriented department (MIT's Media Lab), and the first text won the
publishing industry's "best computer science book" award.

A high proportion of those interested in nanotechnology are computer
professionals of one flavor or another, and for years they have asked with
increasing vigor "What can I do to further nanotechnology?"  In response to
these demands, Foresight's third research conference is especially designed
to enable members of the computer community -- programmers, software
engineers, hardware designers, and computer scientists in general -- to
move their knowledge base and, ideally, their careers toward
nanotechnology.  All those with a computer background are urged to attend.

The Third Foresight Conference on Molecular Nanotechnology: Computer-Aided
Design of Molecular Systems will be held in Palo Alto on October 14-16,
1993.  The meeting includes speakers who have made or are making the
transition from computer science to nanotechnology. 

According to conference co-chair Ralph Merkle, "The main emphasis of this
conference will be on computational approaches to the development of
molecular manufacturing, in particular the use of molecular modeling and
the development of molecular computer-aided design (CAD) tools.  The
conference will be valuable both for people who work professionally in
computational chemistry and also for people who have a background in
computer science and are interested in finding out what they can do to
contribute to the development of molecular manufacturing.

"There will also be a tutorial the day before the conference, so that
people who have a background in computer science and wish to come up to
speed in computational chemistry can get an introduction to the
methodologies and techniques that are commonly used."

The conference will feature fifteen or more speakers giving presentations
on topics relevant to the pursuit of molecular control.  We can only sketch
a few of these here:

Joel Orr, Autodesk Fellow, past president of the National Computer Graphics
Association, and president of the Virtual Worlds Society, will address CAD
industry professionals, potential nanotech designers, and others interested
in hearing about the special needs of nanotechnology with respect to CAD. 
In the macro and micro worlds, computer-aided design is optional: design
can be done by hand.  But in the nano world, CAD is essential.  He will
discuss:

* Is standard CAD good enough for nanotech?
* What are the characteristics of the ideal system?
* Who is working on such systems?
* When will results be available?
* Nano a mano: What can be done by hand, without CAD?

Virtual Reality for Nanotechnology

Russell Taylor, a researcher at the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, will be speaking on a subject of particular interest to two groups of
people: (1) surface scientists who are interested in better interfaces to
their instruments, and (2) builders of virtual worlds, since the system is
an example of a virtual world applied to a scientific problem.

The system under discussion, the Nanomanipulator, is an immersive
virtual-environment interface to a Scanning Tunneling Microscope (STM).  A
head-mounted display presents a scaled image of the surface being scanned
by the STM in front of the user while a force-feedback Argone-III Remote
Manipulator (ARM) allows the user to feel contours on the surface. 
Computer-controlled instrumentation allows the user to make bias pulses at
specified locations, thus modifying the surface.

Ted Kaehler, a computer scientist at Apple Computer, points out that we do
not know how the first assembler will be built or what exact research is
needed to get there.  A person who is not a professional chemist or
materials scientist, and yet wants to be involved in this effort, has to
think about how his/her skills match the problem.  In this talk, entitled
"What Can a Programmer Do to Help Create Nanotechnology?", he discusses
three efforts he has been involved in.  

The first is a program to discover voids inside large molecules.  Programs
that search for the proper design of a large molecule need to know where
the empty spaces are.  The second is a project to build the "relaxation
server" on the Internet.  This server accepts proposed molecules (via email
messages) and computes the coordinates of the atoms.  The results are sent
back by email.  The third project is a "program" of a different sort -- a
meeting group.  The "Assembler Multitude," a subgroup of the local Computer
Professionals for Social Responsibility chapter -- meets every other Monday
night in Palo Alto and covers a wide variety of nanotechnology-related
topics.

Charles Musgrave, a doctoral candidate at the California Institute of
Technology, will talk about ab initio calculations for mechanosynthetic
construction of diamondoid structures.  Accurate transition state barriers
for a positionally controlled reaction are necessary to both the design of
the tool and the design of the synthetic process.  If either of these
designs is not practical, then an alternate structure is required.  High
level ab initio calculations are required to obtain accurate transition
state structures and thus reliable mechanochemical modeling.

J. Storrs Hall, Rutgers University, will be speaking on nanocomputing;
particularly the expected developments in computer architecture that make
use of reversibility to reduce heat dissipation.  The techniques will be
critical for nanocomputers, but are on the verge of becoming useful in
VLSI, so the talk will be of interest to anyone in computer architecture as
well as those studying molecular computers per se.

Markus Krummenacker, an Institute for Molecular Manufacturing researcher, 
will be presenting a "cavity stuffer" program which should enable the
design of macromolecules the size of proteins.  These macromolecules should
then be easily synthesizable and should also have specifiable interface
surfaces so that they can self assemble.

Additional talks include:
*  Introduction to the Design of Molecular Systems, by Eric Drexler, IMM
*  Computational Nanotechnology, by Ralph Merkle, Xerox PARC
*  Design of Macromolecular Objects, by Manfred Mutter, Institut de Chimie
    Organique
*  Molecular Modeling, by William Goddard, Caltech
*  Crystal-Based Molecular CAD, by Geoff Leach, Royal Melbourne Institute
    of Technology
*  Visualization with Molecular Graphics, by Michael Pique, Scripps
    Research Institute
*  Modeling Diamond CVD with Density Functional Theory, by Warren Pickett, NRL
*  Ab Initio Methods and Software, by Charles Bauschlicher, NASA Ames
*  Atom Manipulation by Proximal Probes: Experiment and Theory, by Makoto
    Sawamura, Aono Atomcraft Project

The first Nanotechnology Award (and accompanying cash prize) will be
presented at the meeting.  Nomination information will be available from
Foresight Institute.

DEMONSTRATIONS
Leading vendors will demonstrate products useful in the pursuit of
molecular control, including molecular modeling software and hardware, and
proximal probe systems (e.g. STM).

CALL FOR PAPERS
Contributions on relevant topics are solicited for presentation in lecture
or poster format. Potential contributors are asked to submit an abstract
(200-400 words), including names, addresses, telephone and fax numbers of
the author(s), and an indication of whether oral or poster presentation is
preferred. Papers of both kinds will be reviewed for publication. In
choosing papers, priority will be given to (1) cogent descriptions of the
state of the art in techniques relevant to the construction of complex
molecular systems, (2) well-grounded proposals for interdisciplinary
efforts which, if funded and pursued, could substantially advance the state
of the art, and (3) reports of recent relevant research.

JOURNAL & BOOK PUBLICATION OF PROCEEDINGS
Proceedings of the conference will be refereed and published in a special
issue of the international journal Nanotechnology, and later in book form.
Abstracts due                 August   15, 1993
Notification of acceptance    September 1, 1993
Manuscripts due               October  14, 1993

Abstracts should be directed to the Foresight Institute,  Box 61058, Palo
Alto, CA 94306, USA.

PRE-CONFERENCE TUTORIAL
A full-day tutorial on molecular modeling and computational chemistry will
be held on October 13.  This tutorial is designed for computer scientists
and programmers interested in using their computer skills to become active
in the field of nanotechnology. The workshop will be taught by Bill Goddard,
Ralph Merkle, Eric Drexler and others.  More detailed information, including
registration materials, will be sent to all conference registrants.

SITE AND ACCOMMODATIONS
Conference sessions will be held at the Hyatt Rickeys Hotel in Palo Alto. 
Accommodation arrangements should be made directly with the hotel. 
Reservations should be made by September 29; when making reservations,
mention that you are attending the "Foresight Nanotechnology Conference" to
obtain the lower conference room rate.  Deposits in the amount of the first
night's stay plus tax are required to guarantee reservations; these are
refundable up to 6 PM on the date of arrival.  Room rate: $89, single or
double occupancy, plus 10% local tax.

Hyatt Rickeys
4219 El Camino Real
Palo Alto, CA 94306
(415) 493-8000 tel
(415) 424-0836 fax

TRANSPORTATION
The conference site is easily reached from San Francisco International
Airport and San Jose International Airport. Information on ground
transportation services will be mailed to registrants.

REGISTRATION FORM        (please print and mail or fax)

Name:

Title:  Dr.  Prof.  Ms.  Mr.

Address:

Tel.:

Fax:

Email:

Position (programmer, professor, director, etc.):

Organizational affiliation (for your badge):

The registration fee includes the scientific program, Wednesday evening
reception, Thursday and Friday luncheons, and a copy of the proceedings
journal issue. (Student and one-day rates do not include proceedings.)

postmarked:           by Sept. 1     after Sept. 1
Regular                  $350           $400
Academic, nonprofit,
    governmental         $275           $325
Student                  $100           $125
One day (specify day)    $135           $160
Add $200 for Pre-conference Tutorial registration.

Total amount:   $

Payment may be made by VISA, MasterCard, check, or international money
order valid in the U.S.  Make checks payable to "Foresight Conferences";
checks and bank drafts must be in U.S. dollars drawn on a U.S. bank. 
Refunds of registration fees can only be made on receipt of a written
request which must be postmarked no later than September 15, and are
subject to a $50 administrative fee.  Credit card registrations may be
faxed; please do not send credit card information over the Internet.

Card #:

Exp. date:

Signature (required for credit card registrations):


Mail or fax registration to:

Foresight Institute
Box 61058, Palo Alto CA 94306 USA
Tel. 415-324-2490       Fax 415-324-2497
Internet: foresight@cup.portal.com

PLEASE FORWARD TO APPROPRIATE NEWSGROUPS AND ELECTRONIC MAILING LISTS



