WXLS is an experimental version of XLISP-STAT for MS WINDOWS. The
current version is 2.1 Release 3 Alpha 5. New versions will be made
available for ftp from umnstat as bugs are found and fixed. If you run
into problems, please report them to me in as much detail as possible,
including a description of your hardware configurarion.

This implementation is fairly close to the Macintosh implementation;
the file wxls.tex contains a more complete description of the
differences between this version and other versions.

The distribution available for ftp from umnstat consists of a
self-extracting ZIP file, WXLSZIP.EXE. After downloading this file,
run it with the command

	wxlszip -d

The -d flag preserves the directory structure in the archive.

Put the executable, wxls.exe, somewhere on your search path and put
the lib directory somewhere convenient. If you do not install the
library directory so it is the subdirectory XLSLIB of the executable's
startup directory, then be sure to define an environment variable
XLISPLIB with the path of the directory ENDING WITH A \. So if you put
the library in c:\xlisp\lib, define

set XLISPLIB=c:\xlisp\lib\

Put this in your AUTOEXEC.BAT or somesuch so it is available whenever
you run wxls. Then type win wxls.

Luke Tierney
School of Statistics
University of Minnesota
Minneapolis, MN 55455
luke@umnstat.stat.umn.edu

Modifications since 2.1R3 Alpha 1:
----------------------------------
2.1R3 Alpha 2:  Modified the transformation code in graphs to use integer
		arithmetic. This should improve performance of rotation
                on systems without a coprocessor.

                Fixed a bug that could cause the system to hang after a
                CONTROL-C if a mouse click is pending.

2.1R3 Alpha 3:  Improved speed of symbol drawing by giving each symbol
		its own device context.

2.1R3 Alpha 4:  Fixed bug in realloc that caused boxplots to bomb.

2.1R3 Alpha 5:  Fixed realloc fix.
		Modified exit process to hopefully be more stable.
		Fixed bug in change-symbol message related to depth cuing.
		fixed load and require statements in Examples files.

2.1R3 Alpha 6:  Fixed dynamic loading problem.
                Removed some strings from local heap using spp preprocessor.
                Increased listener buffer size (using string savings).
                Changed listener to wrap long lines.
                Put in sprintf from BSD -- BCC's rounds 8 to 10!
                Removed save item from grsph menus.
                Added copying graphs to clipboard using edit menu copy item.
                Added version number to About dialog.
                Added eispack eigen routine for real symmetric matrices.
