Article 17980 of comp.ai:
Xref: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.robotics:6390 comp.ai:17980
Newsgroups: comp.robotics,comp.ai
Path: crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.mic.ucla.edu!library.ucla.edu!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!psinntp!gdstech!gdstech!wlim
From: wlim@gdstech.GRUMMAN.COM (Willie Lim)
Subject: CIRFFSS '94 -- Deadline extension
Message-ID: <WLIM.93Jul21211140@gdstech.GRUMMAN.COM>
Sender: wlim@gdstech.grumman.com (Willie Lim)
Organization: Grumman Corporation, Bethpage, New York, USA.
Distribution: comp
Date: Thu, 22 Jul 1993 02:11:40 GMT
Lines: 249

Date: Wed, 21 Jul 1993 14:37:27 -0400
From: "R. Peter Bonasso" <bonasso@starbase.mitre.org>
Subject: CIRFFSS Conference


Dear Researcher of Intelligent Robots,

The following call is about a conference that Jon Erickson, chief scientist at
NASA-JSC, is forming to help transition new robotic technologies to the
robotics industry. It's a chance to tell industry that if they just considered
putting sensors on their platforms, that there are perception and control
techniques that would transform their robots into intelligent agents well worth
their cost to the user.

I am chairing the Planning, Reasoning and Control Track. We will have a session
on situated reasoning, one on selective perception, and one on planning for
robot tasks. Please consider submitting a one-page email ascii abstract by 30
July. Send situated reasoning abstracts to wlim@gdstech.grumman.com (Willie
Lim), selective perception abstracts to kak@ecn.purdue.edu (Avi Kak), and
planning abstracts to me for now. We will send you a follow up abstract form to
fill out for administrative purposes.

You'll note that the dates are coincident with the Spring Symposia series. That
couldn't be helped. There may actually be some potential grant sponsors at this
conference. So if you haven't made plans, please consider giving a paper at
CIRFFSS.

Pete

      AIAA CONFERENCE ON INTELLIGENT ROBOTS IN FACTORY, FIELD, SPACE, AND
      SERVICE (CIRFFSS) March 21-24, 1994 Houston, TX "FINDING OUR COMMON
      GROUND"

      The AIAA Conference on Intelligent Robots for Factory, Field, Space, and
      Service is a major international event in intelligent robotics.  It
      provides a unique forum for engineers and scientists from industry,
      government, and academia, and from a wide range of development and user
      environments, to exchange knowledge of the state of the art, unfulfilled
      requirements, and current research directions.  The conference goals are
      a) to develop a shared technology base among the researchers, developers
      and users of intelligent robots, b) to understand the commonality and the
      differences among the requirements for applications in the different
      environments of space, service, field, and factory, and c) to increase
      the efficiency and synergy of ongoing efforts.  Papers are invited that
      cover all aspects of the development, and use of intelligent robots.

      APPLICATION TRACKS: (Papers describing designs and uses of intelligent
      robots.)

      Factory:  assembly, transport, inspection, warehousing, manufacturing

      Field: Underwater, explosive handling, hazardous environments, military
      applications, autonomous land vehicles, construction, very cold
      environments, mining, drilling

      Space: On orbit servicing and assembly, planetary exploration and
      operations, spacecraft inspection, ground based operations

      Service: health care, security systems, cleaning systems, residential
      office, facility maintenance


      Types of Application papers  include:  concepts, designs, experiments, 
      operational experience, and requirements.

      TECHNOLOGY TRACKS: (Papers describing the technology of building
      intelligent robotic systems.)

      Robotic Sensing, Vision, and Perception: vision, radar, sonar, IR,
      innovative approaches, proximity sensors,

      Planning, Reasoning, and Control: behavioral and subsumption methods,
      deliberative planners, reasoning architectures, combination and mediation
      of planning, reasoning and control elements

      Systems Technology and Architectures: methods for allocating functions,
      system and software architectures, approaches to modularity and reuse.


      Types of Technology papers desired include: Surveys of the state of the
      art, subsystem concepts, experimental results in different environments,
      system and subsystem metrics, comparison of different approaches

      VIDEO TAPES:  Are encouraged in all areas.

      PAPER  SUBMISSION

      An abstract of approximately 1000 words should be prepared in accordance
      with the Abstract Submittal Form.  Abstracts should be submitted in
      triplicate before July 19, 1993.  Authors will be notified of paper
      acceptance by September 15, 1993, and manuscripts will be due by December
      1, 1993.  Proceedings will be available at the conference.  Please
      indicate the appropriate track, if known.

      Papers should be submitted to the:  
      Program Chairman:   
      Dr. Lawrence P. Seidman     
      The MITRE Corporation   
      1120 NASA Road 1    
      Houston, TX  77058-3320 
      Telephone:  713-335-8532    
      Fax:  713-333-5147  
      Email:  lseidman@mitre.org  


      Address other conference inquires:
      Conference Chairman:
      Dr. Jon D. Erickson
      Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center (NASA)
      2101 NASA Road 1
      Houston, TX  77058
      Telephone:  713-483-1508
      Fax:  713 483-75802/1/93
      Email:  erickson@aio.jsc.nasa.gov

      2/1/93

      Preliminary Summary of Plans - February 1, 1993

      CIRFFSS '94

      Conference on Intelligent Robotics for Field, Factory, Service, and Space


      Sponsored by: NASA Johnson Space Center and American Institute of
      Aeronautics and Astronautics(AIAA)

      In Cooperation With(no financial obligations):
	  International Service Robot Association
	  IEEE R&A Society
	  Robotics Industries Association
	  AAAI
	  SPIE
	  AIAA Space Automation and Robotics Technical Committee
	  Houston Section of AIAA
	  IEEE Galveston Bay Section
	  Clear Lake Council of Technical Societies

      Plenary Keynote Speaker: Chairman of the President's Council on Economic
      Competitiveness ( or equivalent) Banquet Speaker: Joseph F. Engelberger,
      CEO of Transitions Research Corp.  "Father of American Robotics"

      General Chairman:   Dr. Aaron Cohen, JSC Center Director, 
      Conference Chairperson:   Dr. Jon D. Erickson, NASA Johnson Space Center
      Program Chairman:   Dr. Lawrence P. Seidman, MITRE

      Technology Tracks:
      Robotic Sensing, Vision, and Perception - Hatem Nasr, Honeywell
      Planning, Reasoning, and Control - J. Peter Bonasso, MITRE
      Systems Technology and Architectures - Art Sanderson, RPI and Ray
      Harrigan, Sandia Nat'l Labs

      Applications Tracks:
      Field Applications - Major Michael Leahy, Kelly Air Force Base
      Factory Applications - Harry Roman, Public Service Electric and Gas
      Service Applications - John Holland, Cybermotion
      Space Applications -Joe Parrish, NASA


      Track Concept:

      Each track will consist of 3 or 4 half day sessions.  All Technology
      Tracks will be in the mornings and all Application Tracks will be in the
      afternoons.  This enables an attendee to hear all the papers in his area
      of interest (Application or Technology) while still sampling the other
      areas.  We anticipate that it will start with an invited keynote speaker.
      Each session will likely have an invited speaker or two.  The balance
      will be six to eight "regular" papers.

      Basic Meeting Plan:
      Day One
      Speaker's Breakfast
      Plenary Session, Morning
      Luncheon
      Three Parallel Technology Sessions, Afternoon
      Wine and Cheese Reception, PM

      Day Two
      Speaker's Breakfast
      Four Parallel Application, Morning
      Sandwich and Salad Buffet Available for Lunch
      Three Parallel Technology Sessions, Afternoon
      Reception and Banquet with Speaker

      Day Three
      Speaker's Breakfast
      Four Parallel Application Sessions, Morning
      Luncheon
      Three Parallel Technology Sessions, Afternoon
      Elective Event

      Day Four
      Speaker's Breakfast
      Four Parallel Application Sessions, Morning
      Sandwich and Salad Buffet Available for Lunch
      Plenary Session, Afternoon

      Proceedings available at the conference -- Policy of no manuscript, no
      podium Approximately 21 x 3 invited/contributed papers/day, plus 3 to 4
      parallel sessions times 4 days gives approximately 189
      invited/contributed papers Plus approximately 11 plenary papers Total
      papers = About 200 papers


      South Shore Harbour Resort and Conference Center located 3 miles south of
      the NASA Johnson Space Center on the opposite(south) shore of Clear Lake

      Other Area Attractions: NASA Johnson Space Center(JSC) is 15 miles south
      of Hobby Airport.  Tours of JSC space robotics laboratories will be
      arranged.

      Space Center Houston is the new visitors center at the NASA Johnson Space
      Center which opened in the fall of 1992.  Designed by Disney
      Imagineering, this center has an IMAX theater and hands-on interactive
      exhibits and displays.  Includes tours of JSC Mission Control and
      development and training facilities.  Admission is $8.75.

      Galveston Island is a resort area having many interesting attractions.

      Gulf Greyhound Park is a few miles south of South Shore Harbour and is
      the biggest crowd-drawing dog racing track in the United States.  It
      doesn't cost much to have alot of fun.  Admission is $1.

      There are several hotels near the Johnson Space Center, including a
      Hilton, Holiday Inn, Ramada, American Host, Motel 6, and others.


      Number of Participants:  Probably on the order of 350


      Technical Program Committee Organizers and session chairpersons of the
      technical sessions, including the plenary session, topics and people for
      invited papers in technical sessions, panel discussions, and tutorials.
      Writes the call for papers.  Negotiates with other societies for program
      track or session responsibilities.

