From honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!usenet.ufl.edu!suntan.eng.usf.edu!waterfall!hall Fri Sep 10 15:27:34 EDT 1993
Article: 18768 of comp.ai
Xref: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:18768 comp.ai.neural-nets:12249 comp.ai.fuzzy:1125
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!usenet.ufl.edu!suntan.eng.usf.edu!waterfall!hall
From: hall@waterfall.csee.usf.edu (Larry Hall)
Newsgroups: comp.ai,comp.ai.neural-nets,comp.ai.fuzzy
Subject: AAAI Fall Symposium on Machine Learning in Computer Vision Final Program
Date: 10 Sep 1993 16:08:55 GMT
Organization: University of South Florida, Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Lines: 177
Sender: hall@waterfall (Larry Hall)
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <26q8qn$cog@suntan.eng.usf.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: waterfall.csee.usf.edu


                       AAAI Fall Symposium Series

          Machine Learning in Computer Vision: What, Why and How?

                            Final Program

                         October 22 - 24, 1993

            Sheraton Imperial Hotel and Convention Center
                       Research Triangle Park
                       Raleigh, North Carolina

  (registration is limited-- e-mail fss@aaai.org for registration information)


Friday, October 22

9:00 - 10:30-- Exciting and Controversial Invited talks on Learning and Vision

   Task-Oriented Vision Learning, Tom Mitchell, Carnegie-Mellon University

   In what sense might vision be learned?, Chris Brown, University of Rochester


11:00 - 12:30-- moderated by Diane Cook, University of Texas at Arlington

   Incremental Modelbase Updating: Learning New Model Sites
   Kuntal Sengupta and Kim L. Boyer, The Ohio State University 

   Learning Image to Symbol Conversion 
   Malini Bhandaru, Bruce Draper and Victor Lesser, University of Massachusetts at Amherst 

   Transformation-invariant Indexing and Machine Discovery for Computer Vision 
   Darrell Conklin, Queen's University 

   Recognition and Learning of Unknown Objects in a Hierarchical Knowledge-base
   L. Dey, P.P. Das,  and S. Chaudhury, I.I.T., Delhi


   Unsupervised Learning of Object Models
   C. K. I. Williams, R. S. Zemel, Univ. of Toronto; M. C. Mozer, Univ. of Colorado 

2:00 - 3:30-- moderated by Pat Langley, Siemens Corporate Research

   Learning and Recognition of 3-D Objects from Brightness Images 
   Hiroshi Murase and Shree K. Nayar, Columbia University 

   Adaptive Image Segmentation Using Multi-Objective Evaluation and Hybrid Search Methods 
   Bir Bhanu, Sungkee Lee, Subhodev Das, University of California 

   Learning 3D Object Recognition Models from 2D Images 
   Arthur R. Pope and David G. Lowe, University of British Columbia 

   Matching and Clustering: Two Steps Towards Automatic Objective Model Generation 
   Patric Gros, LIFIA, Grenoble, France 

   Learning About A Scene Using an Active Vision System 
   P. Remagnino, M. Bober and J. Kittler, University of Surrey, UK 


4:00 - 5:30-- moderated by Bruce Draper, University of Massachusetts

   Learning Indexing Functions for 3-D Model-Based Object Recognition 
   Jeffrey S. Beis and David G. Lowe, University of British Columbia 

   Non-accidental Features in Learning
   Richard Mann and Allan Jepson, University of Toronto 

   Feature-Based Recognition of Objects 
   Paul A. Viola, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 


   Learning Correspondences Between Visual Features and Functional Features \\
   Hitoshi Matsubara, Katsuhiko Sakaue and Kazuhiko Yamamoto, ETL, Japan 

   A Self-Organizing Neural Network that Learns to Detect and Represent
   Visual Depth from Occlusion Events
   Johnathon A. Marshall and Richard K. Alley, University of North Carolina


Saturday, October 23
9:00 - 10:30-- Exciting and Controversial Invited talks on Learning and Vision

   Machine Learning and Computer Vision: An odd couple that could be ideal
   Ramesh Jain, University of California at San Diego.

   Reinforcement Learning and Computer Vision
   Rich Sutton, GTE Research Labs 


11:00 - 12:30-- moderated by Sridhar Mahadevan, University of South Florida


   Learning from the Schema Learning System
   Bruce Draper, University of Massachusetts
   
   Learning Symbolic Names for Perceived Colors
   J.M. Lammens and S.C. Shapiro, SUNY Buffalo
   
   Extracting a Domain Theory from Natural Language to 
      Construct a Knowledge Base for Visual Recognition  
   Lawrence Chachere and Thierry Pun, University of Geneva 
   
  Symbolic and Subsymbolic Learning for Vision: Some Possibilities
   Vasant Honavar, Iowa State University 

  A Vision-Based Learning Method for Pushing Manipulation,
  Marcos Salganicoff, Univ. of Pennsylvania; Giorgio Metta, Andrea Oddera
  and Giulio  Sandini, University of Genoa.


2:00 - 3:30-- moderated by Randall Nelson, University of Rochester 

   A Classifier System for Learning Spatial Representations Based 
      on a Morphological Wave Propagation Algorithm 
   Michael M. Skolnick, R.P.I. 

   Evolvable Modeling: Structural Adaptation Through Hierarchical Evolution 
      for 3-D Model-based Vision
   Thang C. Nguyen, David E. Goldberg, Thomas S. Huang, University of Illinois 

   Developing Population Codes for Object Instantiation Parameters 
   Richard S. Zemel, Geoffrey E. Hinton, University of Toronto 

   Integration of Machine Learning and Vision into an Active Agent Paradigm
    Peter W. Pachowicz, George Mason University 

   Assembly plan from observation
   K. Ikeuchi and S.B. Kang, Carnegie-Mellon University


4:00 - 5:30-- moderated by Robin Murphy, Colorado School of Mines


   Learning Shape Models for a Vision Based Human-Computer Interface
   Jakub Segen, A.T.\&T. Bell Laboratories 

   Learning Visual Speech 
   G. J. Wolff, K. V. Prasad, D. G. Stork & M. Hennecke, Ricoh California Research Center 

   Learning open loop control of complex motor tasks
   Jeff Schneider, University of Rochester

   Issues in Learning from Noisy Sensory Data
   J. Bala and P. Pachowicz, George  Mason University

   Learning combination of evidence functions in object recognition
   D. Cook, L. Hall, L. Stark and K. Bowyer, University of South Florida


Sunday, October 24

9:00 - 10:30-- moderated by Abraham Waksman, Air Force Office of Scientific Research
   Exciting and Controversial Panel Discussion:
      Managing resource boundedness and achieving scale-up 
         with the help of machine learning

11:00 - 12:30-- moderated by Bir Bhanu, University of California at Riverside

   Learning for Vision: Up with the Gigabyte! Death to the Functional View!
   Randal Nelson, University of Rochester

   Learning to Eliminate Background Effects in Object Recognition 
   Robin R. Murphy, Colorado School of Mines 

   The Prax Approach to Learning a Large Number of Texture Concepts
   J. Bala, R. Michalski, and J. Wnek, George Mason University

   Non-Intrusive Gaze Tracking Using Artificial Neural Networks
   Dean A. Pomerleau and Shumeet Baluja, Carnegie Mellon University

   Toward a General Solution to the Symbol Grounding Problem: Combining 
   Machine Learning  and Computer Vision 
   Paul Davidsson, Lund University 




