
			   LSA STYLE SHEET
	FOR PUBLICATIONS OF THE LINGUISTIC SOCIETY OF AMERICA
				 1988

  1. The manuscript.  (a) Use heavy-weight paper of good quality; a
20-pound stock is best.  Avoid paper that is not perfectly adapted for
taking notations in ink; above all avoid Eaton's `Corrasable Bond' and
similar brands with a surface glazed for easy erasing.  Xerox copies
are acceptable; but do not submit mimeographed or dittoed copies.  If
you use a word processor, tear off the perforated edge strips and
detach the papers from one another before you submit your manuscript.
  (b) Use paper of standard size, 8 1/2 by 11 inches.  If that size is
not available, include a dozen extra sheets of the size you are using,
for editorial purposes.
  (c) All copy must be typewritten or printed, on one side of the
sheet only, double-spaced throughout.  The requirement of double
spacing applies to everything in the manuscript; there must not be two
lines anywhere with less than a double space between.  Note that
`double space' means that there is a FULL space between lines.  Be
warned that, on many typewriters, the second setting of the line space
lever results in `space-and-a-half,' not double space.
  (d) If proportional spacing is used, type must be no smaller than 12
point.  If regular spacing is used, type must be no smaller than 12
pitch (characters per inch).
  (e) Leave wide margins on all four sides, not less than 1 1/2 inches
at the left, the right, the top, and the bottom.
  (f) Never type special matter on the same sheet with ordinary text.
Special matter here denotes extended quotations and other passages to
be set in smaller type, tables, charts, and diagrams, but not simple
examples, rules, or formulae.  Each piece of special matter must be
typed (with double spacing) on a separate sheet or series of sheets.
If the ordinary text preceding a piece of special matter ends with
part of the sheet unfilled, leave it blank.
  (g) Number the pages of the copy in the upper right corner.  Include
all sheets of the manuscript in a single pagination.
  (h) Submit MSS of articles in three copies, of review in two copies.
Articles will not be returned unless postage is provided by
contributors.  Keep a duplicate copy for yourself.  (When galley proof
is sent to you, the original manuscript will not be included.)
  (i) The LSA urges contributors to LANGUAGE to be sensitive to the
social implications of language choice, and to seek wording free of
discriminatory overtones -- e.g. by using plural pronouns, instead of
a generic singular, wherever possible.

  2. Corrections.  (a) Make all the corrections of the copy as neatly
and unobtrusively as possible.  Avoid delete signs and other marks
properly used only in correcting proof.  Do not deface the copy by
guide lines, rings around insertions, or instructions to the printer.
Leave these to the Editor's discretion.
  (b) An error discovered while typing is better corrected by x-ing
out than by erasing.  An error discovered later should be corrected
with a fine pen (not a ball-point).
  (c) To delete a single letter, x it out or draw a short vertical
stroke through it.  To delete a longer sequence, x it out or draw a
single horizontal line though it.
  (d) To insert a letter or longer sequence, write it between the
lines above the point where it belongs.  An addition of several words
is best written in the margin, with a caret to show its place in the
line.  To not draw guide lines from the addition to the caret.
  (e) Never touch up a page of the manuscript with white paint, or use
cellulose tape, or otherwise make it difficult for the Editor to
insert pen-and-ink notations.
  (f) If a page becomes hard to read because of corrections and
additions, retype it.  Do not paste together parts of sheets to make
new sheets of abnormal size; instead, use two or more sheets of normal
size, even if none is filled.

  3. Underscores.  (a) A single straight underscore indicates italic
type, a double underscore small capitals, a wavy underscore boldface.
Contributors are asked to use these underscorings only for the
following purposes and no others.
  (b) Use italics only for cited linguistic forms and for titles of
books and journals.  Do not use italics for emphasis, or to mark
foreign words used as part of an English sentence: a-priori, ad hoc,
inter alia, ipso facto, prima facie, fa\,con de parler, langue/parole,
Sprachgef\"uhl, ursprachlich, etc. -- all without underscore.
  (c) Use small capitals, where it seems essential, to give prominence
or emphasis to a word, phrase, or sentence in the text, or to mark a
technical term at its first occurrence.
  (d) Use boldface for certain forms in Oscan and Umbrian, and when
necessary to distinguish Gaulish and other forms originally written in
the Greek alphabet.

  4. Punctuation.  (a) Use only single quotation marks -- never double
except for quotes within quotes.  This applies to all uses of
quotation marks without exception.  If the second of a pair of quotes
stands at the same point as another mark of punctuation, the quote
precedes unless the other mark is itself part of the quoted matter.
The word means `cart', not `horse'.  He writes, `This is false.'  Does
that mean `You heard me'?  It means `Did you hear me?'
  (b) Never use quotes to enclose a word or phrase cited as a
linguistic example; see \section 6.
  (c) Words containing prefixes are written solid, without hyphens,
when no misreading will result: antimentalism, contradistinction,
extrasystemic, prevocalic, semivowel, subdialect, superstock.  The
prefix is followed by a hyphen when the next element begins with a
capital: non-Germanic, pre-Greek.
  (d) Ellipsis is indicated by three periods, close set, with a blank
space before and after, like ... this.  Do not add a fourth period
even if the ellipsis precedes or follows the end of a sentence.
  (e) Use a comma after the expressions e.g. and i.e. only when a
full sentence follows, and do not underscore them.
  (f) Use a comma before the conjunction that joins the last of a
series of three or more coordinate items: A, B, and C; X, Y, or Z.

  5. Footnotes.  (a) Footnotes are numbered serially through the
article or review, or through one chapter of a longer work.
  (b) The footnote reference number is a raised numeral following the
word or passage to which it applies; it is not enclosed in
parentheses, and is not followed by a parenthesis or a period.
Reference numbers follow marks of punctuation.
  (c) All footnotes must be typed (with double spacing) on a sheet or
series of sheets following the main text.  They must never appear on
the same sheet with the text.
  (d) Each footnote is typed as a separate paragraph, with the first
line indented.  It begins with its reference number, raised above the
line of type but not enclosed in parentheses and not followed by a
parenthesis or a period.

  6. Cited forms.  (a) A letter , word, phrase, or sentence cited as a
linguistic example or subject of discussion appears in italics: the
suffix _-s_, the word _like_, the construction _mich friert_.  Do not
use quotation marks for this purpose.
  (b) But cited forms may also appear in phonetic or phonemic
transciption, enclosed in square brackets or in slant lines: the
suffix [s], the work /layk/.  Symbols between brackets or slants are
never underscored.
  (c) Forms in a language not written with the Latin alphabet must be
transliterated (or transcribed), unless there is a cogent reason for
citing them in the original characters.  This provision applies to
Greek as to other languages.
  (d) Cited forms in a foreign language should be followed at their
first occurrence by a gloss in single quotation marks.  No comma
separates the gloss from the cited form: Latin _ovis_ `sheep' is a
noun.  No comma follows the gloss unless it is required by the
sentence as a whole: Latin _ovis_ `sheep', _equus_ `horse', and
_canis_ `dog' are nouns.  Note that the punctuation follows the quote.
  (e) Phonetic symbols and other special characters should be inserted
in the copy with a fine pen (not a ball-point).  Diacritics over and
under letters should be drawn in the exact position they are meant to
occupy.  In leaving blank space for the later insertion of symbols by
hand, it is better to overestimate the space required than to leave
too little.

  7. Abbreviations.  (a) Abbreviations ending in the small letter have
a following period; abbreviations ending in a capital have none.
  (b) Names of languages prefixed as adjectives to linguistic forms
are often abbreviated: E or Eng., ME, OE, Ger., Fr., OFr., Gk. (not
Gr.), Skt. (not Skr.), IE (not I-E), PIE.  But names of languages used
as nouns are not abbreviated: the meaning of OE _guma_, the meaning of
_guma_ in Old English.
  (c) Titles of well-known journals are often abbreviated in
bibliographical references: AA, IJAL, BSOAS.  The regular abbreviation
of LANGUAGE is Lg.
  (d) Abbreviate grammatical terms directly attached to linguistic
forms: Latin inf. _port\=are_, 1sg. pres. ind. _porto_, 2 pl.
_port\=atis_, 3sg. impf. _port\=abat_.  But do not abbreviate such
terms in other uses: the Latin imperfect in _b\=a_.
  (e) Surnames of authors and other persons are never abbreviated.
  (f) In syntactic formulas, `prime' notation (e.g. S', S'') should be
used instead of `bar' notation (\=S, \=\=S), for the sake of greater
typographic ease and legibility.  An exception to the rule may be made,
however, when citing titles such as Ray Jackendoff's _\=X syntax_.

  8. Titles and headings.  (a) Never underscore any part of a title,
subtitle, or section heading.  Leave the choice of type faces to the
Editor.
  (b) Use normal capitalization: capitalize only the first words and
such other words as the orthography of the language requires to begin
with a capital letter.
  (c) Each article begins with the following items, typed on separate
lines (with double spacing), and on a separate sheet: The title, not
more than one typed line; the subtitle, if any; the author's name; and
the name of his/her institution; or his/her city if s/he has no
institutional connection -- all with normal capitalization and without
underscore.  The abstract (see \section 11) and the first paragraph of
the article should begin on succeeding sheets.
  (d) Each review begins with a full citation of the work reviewed and
the reviewer's by-line, typed (with double spacing) on a separate
sheet.  The citations includes the title of the work, with the
subtitle after a colon; the edition, if it is not the first; the name
of the author or editor, surname last; in parentheses, the title of
the series or project of which this work is a part, with its seri\al
number; the place, publisher, and year of publication; the pagination,
roman and arabic, with indication of separately paged plates and maps;
and the price.  For the punctuation of these items, see reviews in
recent numbers of LANGUAGE.
  (e) The by-line stands below the citation after a quadruple space;
it contains the words `Reviewed by' followed by the reviewer's name
and the name of his [sic -- typist] institution or city -- all in one
line, without underscore.  The first paragraph of the review should
begin on the next sheet.
  (f) Section headings and subtitles in the body of the article or
review are either continuous with the first line of a paragraph, with
quadruple space before, or centered in the page, with quadruple space
before and after.  Headings that begin a paragraph end with a period;
centered headings do not.

  9. Bibliographic reference.  Contributors are requested to observe
the following rules:
  (a) Full citation of literature referred to should be given in a
bibliography at the end of each article or review.  Within the text,
brief citation will be made, normally by giving the author's surname,
the year of publication, and the page number(s) where relevant.  Such
brief citations should be given in the body of the text, not in
footnotes, unless they refer specifically to a statement made in a
footnote.
  (b) The full bibliography should be double-spaced, beginning on a
separate page of type-script with the heading \sm{REFERENCES}.
Arrange the entries alphabetically by surnames of authors; multiple
works by one author should be listed chronologically, with suffixed
letter a, b, c, etc. to distinguish several items in a single year.
Each entry should contain the following elements: Author's surname,
given name(s), coauthors if any (given names first), year of
publication, and title of work.  In the case of journal articles, give
name of journal, volume number, and page numbers for the article as a
whole.  In the case of an article in a collection, give the title of
the collection, the editor's name, and the page numbers of the
article.  For all monographs and books, state the edition, volume
number or part number (if applicable), the series in which published
(if any), the place of publication, and the publisher's name.  All
material will be in Roman type.  Use punctuation as in the following
examples:
  Bloomfield, Leonard.  1933.  Language.  New York: Holt.
  Brugmann, Karl.  1906.  Grundriss der vergleichenden Grammatik der
    indogermanischen Sprachen.  2nd edn., vol. 2, part 1.  Strassburg:
    Tr\"ubner.
  Chomsky, Noam.  1957.  Syntactic structures.  (Janua linguarum, 4.)
    The Hague: Mouton.
  Dorian, Nancy C.  1984.  Review of minority languages today, ed. by
    Einar Haugen et al.  Lg. 60.165-9.
  Hockett, Charles F.  1964.  The Proto Central Algonquian kinship
    system.  Explorations in cultural anthropology, ed. by Ward
    Goodenough, 239-58.  New York: McGraw-Hill.
  Hymes, Dell (ed.)  1971.  Pidginization and creolization of languages.
    Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
  Zwicky, Arnold M.  1985.  Clitics and particles.  Lg. 61.283-305.
  (c) The brief citations given in the text should take such forms as
`Bloomfield 1933' or `Hocket 1964:240-1'.  Note that the page numbers
given here are only for the passage to which reference is made, not
for the whole paper.  Use initials for authors' given names only when
necessary to distinguish, e.g. N. Chomsky and C. Chomsky within a
single article.  If the author's name is part of the text, use this
form: `Bloomfield (1933:264) introduced the term ...'
  (d) Where the names of authors or editors appear in the list of
references, do not replace given names with initials, unless such
abbreviations is the normal practice of the individual concerned: thus
Miller, Roy Andrew (not Roy A. or R. A.), Hooper, Joan B. (not J.B. or
J.)\; but Palmer, F. R.

  10. Tables.  (a) Plan each table so that it will fit into the
printed page without crowding.  Leave ample white space between
columns, and double space all entries.  Do not use vertical and
horizontal rules unless the table would be unclear without them.
  (b) Column heads should be short, so as to stand clearly above the
several columns.  If you need longer headings, represent them by
numbers or capital letters and explain these in the text preceding the
table.
  (c) If two or more tables appear in one article, number them and
refer to them by number.  Do not speak of the `preceding' or `the
following table'; the printer may not be able to preserve its original
position.
  (d) Each table should have a legend below it, after quadruple space.
The legend contains the table number and optionally a concise title,
sometimes also (as a separate line) a brief explanation or comment.

  11. Abstracts.  Each manuscript submitted for publication should be
accompanied by an informative abstract, summarizing the conceptual
content of the article.  It should have a maximum length of about 100
words, and be typed on a separate sheet of paper.

  12. Book notes.  These should be in the same format as longer
reviews, except that (a) the author's name and institution appear at
the end of the book note, and (b) footnotes and references are
discouraged -- all essential information should appear in the main
text.
