From hilario@cui.unige.ch Tue Feb  1 21:38:47 EST 1994
Article: 20488 of comp.ai
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:20488
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!zaphod.crihan.fr!jussieu.fr!univ-lyon1.fr!swidir.switch.ch!news.unige.ch!usenet
From: hilario@cui.unige.ch (HILARIO Melanie)
Subject: CFP: ECAI-94 Workshop on Combining Symbolic & Connectionist Processing
Message-ID: <1994Jan31.192749.8992@news.unige.ch>
Sender: usenet@news.unige.ch
Reply-To: hilario@cui.unige.ch
Organization: University of Geneva, Switzerland
Date: Mon, 31 Jan 1994 19:27:49 GMT
Lines: 107





   
                                  Call for Papers
   
   
   	         COMBINING SYMBOLIC AND CONNECTIONIST PROCESSING
   	
	            Workshop held in conjunction with ECAI-94
                   August 9, 1994 - Amsterdam, The Netherlands
			


   Until a  few years ago,  the history of AI has been marked by  two  parallel, 
   often  antagonistic  streams of development -- classical or symbolic  AI  and 
   connectionist  processing.   A  recent  research  trend,   premissed  on  the 
   complementarity  of  these  two paradigms, strives to  build  hybrid  systems 
   which  combine  the advantages of both to overcome the limitations  of  each. 
   For instance, attempts have been made to accomplish complex tasks by blending 
   neural networks with rule-based or case-based reasoning.  This workshop  will 
   be the first  Europe-wide effort to bring together researchers active in  the 
   area  in  view  of  laying  the  groundwork  for  a theory and methodology of
   symbolic/connectionist integration (SCI). 

   The workshop will focus on the following topics:
   
      o   theoretical (cognitive and computational) foundations of SCI
   
      o   techniques and mechanisms for combining  symbolic and neural 
          processing methods  (e.g. ways of improving and going beyond
          state-of-the-art rule compilation and extraction techniques)
   
      o   outstanding problems encountered  and issues involved in SCI 
          (e.g. Which symbolic or connectionist representation schemes 
          are best adapted to SCI? The vector space used in neural nets 
          and the symbolic space have fundamental mathematical differ-
          ences; how will these differences impact SCI? Do we have the 
          conceptual  tools  needed  to cope with this  representation 
          problem?)
   
      o   profiles of application domains in which SCI has been (or can 
          be) shown to perform better than traditional approaches
   
      o   description, analysis and comparison of implemented symbolic/
          connectionist systems
   
   
   SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS
   
   Prospective participants should submit an extended abstract to the contact
   person below,  either via email in postscript format  or via regular mail, 
   in which case three copies are required.  Each submission should include a
   separate information page containing the title of the paper,  author names
   and affiliations, and the complete address  (including telephone,  fax and 
   email)  of the first author.  The paper itself should not exceed 12 pages. 
   Submission deadline is April 1, 1994.
   
   Each  paper  will  be  reviewed  by  at  least  two members of the Program 
   Committee.  Notification  of acceptance or rejection will be sent to first 
   authors by May 1, 1994.  Camera-ready copies of accepted papers are due on 
   June 1st and will be reproduced for distribution at the workshop.
   
   Those who wish  to participate  without  presenting a paper  should send a
   request  describing their  research interests  and/or previous work in the
   field of SCI.  Since attendance will be limited to ensure effective inter-
   action,  these requests will be considered  after screening  of  submitted
   papers.  All  workshop participants  are required to register for the main 
   conference.
   
   
   PROGRAM COMMITTEE
   
   Bernard Amy (LIFIA-IMAG, Grenoble, France)
   Patrick Gallinari (LAFORIA, University of Paris 6, France)
   Franz Kurfess (Dept. Neural Information Processing, University of Ulm, Germany)
   Christian Pellegrini (CUI, University of Geneva, Switzerland
   Noel Sharkey (DCS, University of Sheffield, UK)
   Alessandro Sperduti (CSD, University of Pisa, Italy)
   
   
   IMPORTANT DATES
   
   Submission deadline				April 1, 1994
   Notification of acceptance/rejection		May 1, 1994
   Final papers due				June 1, 1994
   Date of the workshop				August 9, 1994	


   CONTACT PERSON
   
   Melanie Hilario
   CUI - University of Geneva
   24 rue General Dufour
   CH-1211 Geneva 4
   Voice: +41 22/705 7791
   Fax:   +41 22/320 2927
   Email: hilario@cui.unige.ch





 




