From michael@cs.man.ac.uk Thu Jan 27 20:01:34 EST 1994
Article: 20435 of comp.ai
Xref: glinda.oz.cs.cmu.edu comp.ai:20435
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uknet!nessie!mucs!m1!michael
From: michael@cs.man.ac.uk (Michael Fisher)
Newsgroups: comp.ai
Subject: CFP: ECAI'94 Workshop on Agent Theories, Architectures and Languages
Message-ID: <MICHAEL.94Jan27080815@r8.cs.man.ac.uk>
Date: 27 Jan 94 08:08:15 GMT
Sender: news@cs.man.ac.uk
Organization: Department of Computer Science, University of Manchester
Lines: 142





               AGENT THEORIES, ARCHITECTURES, AND LANGUAGES

                  Call for Papers - An ECAI '94 Workshop
                       Amsterdam, August 8th, 1994




Introduction

Artificial Intelligence is concerned with  building,  modeling  and  under-
standing  systems  that  exhibit some aspect of intelligent behaviour.  Yet
it is  only comparatively recently  --  since about the mid 1980s  --  that
issues  surrounding  the  synthesis  of  intelligent autonomous agents have
entered the mainstream of AI. Despite the undoubted interest on the part of
the  international  research  community,  there  is currently no recognised
forum for presenting work in this area. Results are published in a  diverse
range  of  journals,  workshops,  and  conferences, making it difficult for
researchers to meet and follow developments.  The  aim  of  this  workshop,
therefore, is to provide an arena in which researchers working in all areas
related to the theoretical and  practical  aspects  of  both  hardware  and
software  agent synthesis can further extend their understanding and exper-
tise by meeting and exchanging ideas, techniques and results with research-
ers working in related areas.


Workshop Themes


o    Theories of intelligent agents.

     How do the various components of an agent's cognitive makeup  conspire
     to  produce rational behaviour? What is the relationship between these
     components? What formalisms are appropriate for expressing aspects  of
     agent  theory?  Do  we need logic-based formalisms? If not, is another
     type of mathematical framework appropriate?


o    Architectures for intelligent agents.

     What structure should an artificial intelligent agent have?  Is  reac-
     tive  behaviour enough? Or do we need deliberation as well? How can we
     integrate reactive and deliberative components cleanly?  What  is  the
     relationship  between  an agent theory and architecture? How are we to
     reason about reactive systems?


o    Languages for intelligent agents.

     What are the right primitives for programming  an  intelligent  agent?
     How  are  these  primitives  related to the theory of an agent, or its
     architecture?  Can we realistically hope to execute  agent  specifica-
     tions  in  complex,  perhaps  multi-modal languages? Should we aim for
     simple agents, with limited internal complexity,  or  for agents  with
     complex reasoning abilities?


We are particularly interested in papers that cross theme  boundaries,  for
example,  by  relating  theories  to  architectures,  or  architectures  to
languages.


Topics of Interest

Topics of interest include, but are not restricted to the following:

Agent Theories                              Agent Architectures

intentions                                  deliberative architectures
time, desires, beliefs, and goals           reactive architectures
situated automata                           hybrid architectures
logical models of agents
executing logical agent specifications      Agent Languages
rationality & bounded rationality
                                            agent specification languages
                                            the agent-oriented paradigm
                                            non-logical agent languages
                                            agent-based computing


Submission Details

Those wishing to participate in the  workshop  should  submit  an  extended
abstract  of  between  one  thousand and five thousand words (approximately
thirteen pages maximum), to reach either member of the organising committee
no  later  than  Monday 11th April 1994. The first page should include full
name and contact details (including email, full postal address,  and  tele-
phone  number  if  possible) of at least one author. Notification of accep-
tance or rejection will be no later than Monday 9th May 1994, and  will  be
sent  by email where possible. Successful authors will be asked to submit a
full paper by Monday 13th June 1994; pre-proceedings will be distributed at
the  workshop.  A  major  international  publishing  house has expressed an
interest in publishing the proceedings.

Anyone wishing to attend without presenting a paper will be  welcome,  pro-
vided that they contact the organising committee in advance of the workshop
(numbers permitting).

NOTE: All those attending the workshop will be required to register for the
main conference.


Organising Committee

    Michael Wooldridge                   Nicholas Jennings
    Dept of Computing                    Dept of Electronic Engineering
    Manchester Metropolitan University   Queen Mary & Westfield College
    Chester Street                       Mile End Road
    Manchester M1 5GD, U.K.              London E1 4NS, U.K.
    Email mikew@sun.com.mmu.ac.uk        Email N.R.Jennings@qmw.ac.uk
    Tel   (+44 61) 247 1531              Tel   (+44 71) 975 5349
    Fax   (+44 61) 247 1483              Fax   (+44 81) 981 0259


Program Committee

Phil Cohen (USA)           Michael Fisher (UK)   Piotr Gmytrasiewicz (USA)
Hans Haugeneder (Germany)  Sarit Kraus (Israel)  Anand Rao (Australia)
Yoav Shoham (USA)          Munindar Singh (USA)


Further Details

Contact the organising committee via email  for  further  details,  or  for
LaTeX/PostScript versions of this CFP.


[ P.S., please contact the organising committee, rather than the
  address below. ]
--

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Michael Fisher                        EMAIL: michael@sun.com.mmu.ac.uk  |
| Department of Computing                 TEL: (+44) 61 247 1488          |
| Manchester Metropolitan University      FAX: (+44) 61 247 1483          |
| Chester Street                                                          |
| Manchester M1 5GD, United Kingdom                                       |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


