THE ALVEY NATURAL LANGUAGE TOOLS (RELEASE 4)
BASIC DESCRIPTION AND DISTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS

A fourth (and final) release of the Alvey Natural Language Tools
(ANLT) is now available. The UK Alvey Programme originally funded
three projects at the Universities of Cambridge, Edinburgh and
Lancaster to provide tools for use in natural language processing
research. The DTI and SERC has funded their continued support and
enhancement. The tools, a MORPHOLOGICAL ANALYSER, PARSERS and a
GRAMMAR and LEXICON, are usable individually as well as together
(integrated by a GRAMMAR DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT) forming a complete
system for the morphological, syntactic and semantic analysis of a
considerable subset of English.

DISTRIBUTION AND LICENSING

The ANLT system is available by anonymous FTP from Cambridge
University, Computer Laboratory. The files containing grammars,
lexicons and source code are encrypted, however, reports describing
the system, specimen licence agreement and other information is not.
If after examining the documentation, you wish to purchase a licence
for use of the system for research purposes, you should complete and
sign the specimen agreement and return it together with a cheque for
the amount specified in the agreement (currently 500 ECU -- 100 ECU
upgrade -- or local currency equivalent) to:

Lynxvale WCIU Programs
20 Trumpington St.
Cambridge, CB2 1QA, UK
Fax: +223 332797

On receipt Lynxvale will send you (by letter) the key which can be
used in conjunction with the software provided to decrypt the
remaining files. If you do not have access to anonymous FTP, you can
write to Lynxvale for further details and obtain the system on
magnetic tape or cartridge. We are currently negotiating with Longman
Group UK Ltd, who have an interest in the large lexicon, to provide a
commercial licence for use of the ANLT system. A specimen commercial
licence agreement will be deposited in the files shortly.

DESCRIPTION

The MORPHOLOGICAL ANALYSER provides a set of mechanisms for the
analysis of complex word forms. The analyser requires data files
specifying a lexicon of base morphemes, rules governing spelling
changes when concatenating morphemes, and rules describing valid
combinations of morphemes in complex words. The tools include a
description of English morphology in this form. The analyser should be
capable, though, when provided with the necessary linguistic analyses,
of being used for most European languages and many others. The
morphological analyser is now available independently of the rest of
the tools package by anonymous FTP from scott.cogsci.ed.ac.uk
[129.215.144.3]:/pub/phonology/tools/MAP/MAP3.1.tar.Z Further
enquiries may be sent to Alan W Black (awb@ed.ac.uk).

There are two alternative PARSERS. The main one is an optimized chart
parser, incorporating a 'packing' mechanism (making it much more
efficient when parsing sentences containing multiple local
ambiguities).  The other parser is a non-deterministic LALR(1) parser
which seems, in most cases, to be even more efficient than the chart
parser.

The GRAMMAR is a wide-coverage syntactic and semantic grammar of
English, written in a metagrammatical formalism derived from
Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar. The grammar pairs one or more
formulas of the lambda calculus with each syntactic rule and these
produce unscoped (mostly) first-order `event-based' compositional
semantic representations. Full coverage is provided of the following
constructions and their combinations:

   - all sentence types: declaratives, imperatives and questions (yes/no,
   tag and wh questions),
   - all unbounded dependency types: topicalisation, relativisation, wh 
   questions,
   - a relatively exhaustive treatment of verb and adjective complement
   types,
   - phrasal and prepositional verbs of many complement types,
   - passivisation, verb phrase extraposition,
   - sentence and verb phrase modification,
   - noun phrase complements,
   - noun phrase pre- and post-modification,
   - partitives,
   - coordination of all major category types,
   - nominal and adjectival comparatives.

The LEXICON contains 40,000 homonyms (63,000 entries in total) in the
form required by the morphological analyser.

The GRAMMAR DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT gives access to all of the other
components of the tools, allowing grammars to be input, edited, and
browsed; it also compiles them into the base grammatical formalism
used by the parsers, and provides extensive grammar debugging
facilities.  A simple quantifier scoping and post-processing module is
supplied as an example of how the result of parsing a sentence can be
converted into a representation suitable for further semantic and
pragmatic processing. In addition, an illustrative database management
application with a small database of wine merchants' stock is
supplied. 

All of the software components are written in Common Lisp and have
been tested in several implementations on a wide range of machines.

We have created a BULLETIN BOARD which we hope can be used to inform
existing users about developments, to provide some informal support,
and as a forum for discussion between people doing research with the
ANLT system. Submissions should be sent to alveynltools@cl.cam.ac.uk
and requests to be added to or deleted from the distribution list
should be sent to alveynltools-request@cl.cam.ac.uk. If you are an
existing user and this message has come to you direct, your email
address has been added to the list already; unfortunately though, we
do not have up-to-date email addresses for all known users, so please
email alveynltools-request otherwise.


Two published REFERENCES to these projects are:

Briscoe, E., C. Grover, B. Boguraev & J. Carroll, 'A Formalism and
Environment for the Development of a Large Grammar of English',
Proceedings of 10th International Joint Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, Milan, 1987, pp. 703-708.

Ritchie, G., G. Russell, A. Black & S. Pulman, 'Computational
Morphology: Practical Mechanisms for the English Lexicon', MIT Press,
1991.

Technical reports describing the system in detail are available via
FTP as detailed in the file `instruct'. These contain many further
references to papers describing aspects of the ANLT system.


********************

ANLT distribution arrangements and instructions, and a machine-readable
specimen licence agreement are available in files on the FTP server
ftp.cl.cam.ac.uk (128.232.0.56).

To fetch this information use anonymous FTP (login with user name
anonymous, and password your e-mail address), go to the directory
`nltools', and fetch the files

licence     a machine-readable specimen licence agreement
instruct    instructions on how to FTP technical reports and the ANLT itself

The following example shows how to fetch these files:

$ ftp ftp.cl.cam.ac.uk
Connected to swan.cl.cam.ac.uk.
220- swan.cl.cam.ac.uk FTP server (Version 5.60+UA) ready.
...
Name (ftp.cl.cam.ac.uk:jac): anonymous
Password (ftp.cl.cam.ac.uk:anonymous): <type your e-mail address here>
...
ftp> cd nltools
250 CWD command successful.
ftp> get licence
...
ftp> get instruct
...
ftp> quit
221 Goodbye.

(The $ is the Unix shell command prompt). If the FTP command does not
know about the address ftp.cl.cam.ac.uk, try giving the command the
internet number (128.232.0.56) instead.
