Alvey Natural Language Tools




COMMERCIAL
SOFTWARE LICENCE
AGREEMENT



between



Lynxvale Limited


and


<name of LICENSEE>




effective as of




------------------------


COMMERCIAL SOFTWARE LICENCE AGREEMENT

Alvey Natural Language Tools

THIS AGREEMENT is made this             day of          1993 BETWEEN
Lynxvale Limited whose registered office is situated at The Old Schools, 
Trinity Lane, Cambridge CB1 2TN (hereinafter known as 'Lynxvale') and 
<name of LICENSEE>

(hereinafter known as 'the Licensee')


1. GRANT

1.1    Subject to the payment of the fee set out in Clause 3.3 below, 
Lynxvale grants to the Licensee a non-exclusive, non-transferable fully 
paid-up and worldwide licence:

    a) to use, reproduce, translate, modify and add to the Licensed 
    Software, and

    (b) provided the conditions of Clauses 2.6, 2.7 and 2.8 below are 
    met:

(i) to incorporate the whole or any part of the Licensed 
Software within another product and to market, distribute 
and license the Licensed Software to third parties as part of 
that product and to maintain and enhance the same

(ii) to incorporate data generated by use of the Licensed 
Software within a product and to market, distribute and 
license such data to third parties as part of that product and 
to maintain and enhance the same

"Licensed Software" means the Alvey Natural Language Tools as detailed in 
Annex A and shall include source code, object code and all related 
documentation.

1.2.    No title or ownership rights to the Licensed Software are 
transferred to the Licensee by this Agreement.


2. RESTRICTIONS

2.1     Lynxvale hereby states that the Licensed Software constitutes a 
valuable asset.

2.2    The Licensee shall treat the Licensed Software in the same 
manner as it treats its own valuable assets.

2.3    Unless disclosure is made in connection with Clause 2.6 below or 
is authorised under Clause 2.4 below, the Licensee shall not disclose the 
Licensed Software, in whole or in part, to a third party.  The non-
disclosure obligation shall terminate with respect to any particular 
portion of the Licensed Software

    (a) which is or subsequently enters the public domain 
    through no fault of the Licensee

    (b) is developed by employees or agents of the Licensee 
    independently of the Licensed Software, and

    (c) in any event, two (2) years after the disclosure to the 
    Licensee

2.4    The Licensee shall notify and inform its employees having access 
to the Licensed Software of the Licensee's limitations duties and 
obligations regarding non-disclosure and copying of the Licensed 
Software and the Licensed Software shall be used only by  the Licensee, 
employees, consultants or agents of the Licensee only at the designated 
Installation Site.  The Licensed Software shall not be used by any agents 
or consultants of the Licensee without the prior authorisation of 
Lynxvale.

2.5    Errors or deficiencies in design necessitating modifications to the 
Licensed Software shall be reported to Lynxvale.  The intellectual 
property rights to any and all work created or otherwise developed 
from or with the benefit of the Licensed Software (including, without 
limitation all translations, modifications, updates and versions thereof) 
by the Licensee, the employees, consultants or agents of the Licensee, 
shall, notwithstanding anything herein, be vested in the Licensee.  
Lynxvale shall, if requested by the Licensee, execute all papers and do 
all such acts as may be necessary or desirable to perfect or otherwise 
confirm such rights.

For the avoidance of doubt, the intellectual property rights to the 
Licensed Software originally licensed to the Licensee by Lynxvale 
hereunder shall not, unless otherwise agreed by the parties hereto to 
the contrary, be vested in the Licensee.

2.6    The Licensee may incorporate (subsets of) the Licensed Software 
and data generated using the Licensed Software into further 
(commercial or potentially commercial) products provided such 
products augment or alter the  Licensed Software in a reasonably 
material or significant manner or aspect.  If the parties disagree as to 
whether any augmentation or alteration is reasonably significant or 
material, the parties shall endeavour to resolve such dispute amicably, 
failing which it shall be referred to arbitration by a single arbitrator 
appointed by agreement or (in default) nominated on the application of 
either party by the President for the time being of the British Computer 
Society.  The arbitration shall take place in England and the then current 
rules of UNCITRAL shall apply.

2.7    The Licensee agrees that products developed using the Licensed 
Software will not be used by the Licensee for defence, military or 
security applications or sold exclusively for such applications.

2.8    The Licensee agrees that products developed using the large 
lexicon derived from the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English  
will not be used for the development of commercial printed  
dictionaries.      

2.9    The Licensee agrees that use of the Alvey Natural Language Tools 
and of the lexicon derived from the Longman Dictionary of 
Contemporary English is acknowledged as appropriate.

2.10    Notwithstanding any termination the obligation herein to keep 
information confidential shall continue in effect after the expiration or 
termination of this Agreement in accordance with the terms and 
conditions herein contained


3. ACCEPTANCE

3.1    All terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon 
signing of this Agreement by the Licensee and Lynxvale

3.2    The Licensee agrees to nominate a single specialist through whom 
all technical correspondence will be channelled and to provide Lynxvale 
with an electronic mail address for this specialist.

3.3    The Licensee shall pay to Lynxvale the sum of 3000 ECU (or 
equivalent in local currency) plus Value Added Tax at the appropriate 
rate where applicable, such sum to be paid within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of Lynxvale's invoice. 

3.4    If the Licensee is unable to take receipt of the Licensed  Software 
by FTP, the additional cost of creating and sending a magnetic  tape 
must be paid by the Licensee. If special carriers are required or 
export/import agents are to be used, then the additional cost involved 
must be paid by the Licensee.


4. TERMINATION

4.1    This Agreement shall become effective on the day and year first 
written above and will remain in effect until terminated as provided in 
this Agreement

4.2    Lynxvale shall have the right to terminate this Agreement upon 
thirty (30) days written notice (which must be addressed to the 
nominated specialist referred to in Clause 3.3) to the Licensee if the 
Licensee fails to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement and if such failure is not corrected within the said thirty (30) 
days.

4.3.    Lynxvale shall have the right to terminate this Agreement at any 
time in the event that an assignment shall be made of the Licensee's 
business for the benefit of creditors or if a receiver trustee in bankruptcy 
or similar officer shall be appointed to take charge of all or part of the 
Licensee's property or if the Licensee is adjudged a bankrupt.

4.4    Where the Licensee has developed any product that meets the 
conditions set out in Clauses 2.6, 2.7 and 2.8 above, the Licensee shall 
retain the right to use the Licensed Software to maintain (and correct 
errors in) such product.  Otherwise within thirty (30) days after 
termination of this Agreement the Licensee shall certify in writing to 
Lynxvale that all programs and materials containing the Licensed 
Software have been destroyed or deleted from any computer libraries 
or storage and memory devices and are no longer in use or usable by the 
Licensee.


5. WARRANTIES AND LIABILITY

5.1    Lynxvale warrants that it has the right to grant this licence

5.2    While the Licensed Software has been carefully developed and 
tested for accuracy and proper functioning Lynxvale cannot accept any 
liability arising from the interpretation and application of the results 
obtained by the use of the programs.

THE FOREGOING WARRANTIES ARE EXCLUSIVE AND IN LIEU 
OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES OR MERCHANTABILITY FITNESS 
FOR PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND/OR OTHER TYPE WHETHER 
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED

5.3    Subject to Clause 5.1 in no event shall Lynxvale become liable to 
the Licensee or any other party for any loss or damage consequential or 
otherwise including but not limited to time money or goodwill arising 
from the use operation or modification of the Licensed Software by the 
Licensee. 


6. MISCELLANEOUS

6.1    This agreement constitutes and expresses the entire agreement 
and understanding between the parties and supercedes all previous 
communications representations or agreements whether written or 
oral with respect to the subject matter thereof.

6.2    The Agreement may not be and shall not be deemed or construed 
to have been modified amended rescinded cancelled or waived in whole 
or in part except by written instruments signed by the parties

6.3    This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance 
with the laws of England


IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to 
be executed by their duly authorised representatives.


SIGNED for and on behalf of
Lynxvale Limited by









SIGNED for and on behalf of
the Licensee by







ANNEXE A

Alvey Natural Language Tools

English Grammars and Lexicons
Program Source Code (Common Lisp)
User Manual and Grammar Documentation
Test Corpus

(see documentation available by FTP for more detailed and up-to-date
information)


