From pvh@cs.brown.edu Mon Oct  4 21:06:06 EDT 1993
Article: 8689 of comp.lang.prolog
Xref: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.lang.prolog:8689
Newsgroups: comp.lang.prolog
Path: honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!news.Brown.EDU!brunix!cs.brown.edu!pvh
From: pvh@cs.brown.edu (Pascal Van Hentenryck)
Subject: ICLP-94: Call for Reviewers
Message-ID: <1993Oct3.163737.27051@cs.brown.edu>
Sender: news@cs.brown.edu
Organization: Brown Computer Science Dept.
Date: Sun, 3 Oct 1993 16:37:37 GMT
Lines: 147

The program committee of ICLP-94 solicits additional reviewers to help
in the selection process. Our intention is to complement the reviews
of the committee for each paper with one or two reviews of experts
from outside the committee. If you are interested in reviewing papers
for ICLP-94, send the following information
	- name
	- physical address as appropriate for DHL and FedEx
	- Fax Number
	- Phone Number
	- Email Address
	- Areas of expertise
	- Number of papers (> 0) that you would like to review
to
	pvh@cs.brown.edu 

The reviewing period will take place from early December to early
February and will be followed by 2/3 weeks of electronic discussion of
papers with divergent reviews.

We appreciate your cooperation in this important service for the community.

Pascal Van Hentenryck
ICLP'94 Program Chair


/------------------------------------------------------------------------/

                       Call For Papers

          INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON LOGIC PROGRAMMING (ICLP'94)
  
	        S. Margherita Ligure, Italy, 13-18 June 1994 

	   Sponsored by the Association of Logic Programming


Logic programming originates from the discovery that a subset of
predicate logic could be given a procedural interpretation which was
first embodied in the programming language Prolog. The unique features
of logic programming make it appealing for numerous applications in
artificial intelligence, computer-aided design and verification,
databases, and operations research as well as to explore parallel and
concurrent computing. The last two decades have witnessed substantial
developments in this field from its foundation to implementation,
applications, and the exploration of new language designs.

ICLP'94 is the eleventh international conference on logic programming
and is one of the two major annual international conferences reporting
recent research results in logic programming. The technical program
for the conference will include tutorials, invited lectures, and
presentations of refereed papers and posters. Papers are welcome on
all aspects of logic programming, including, but not limited to:

	Applications			 Language design     
	Architecture			 Natural language    
	Artificial Intelligence 	 Parallelism  
	Concurrency     		 Programming methodology 
	Constraints			 Proof theory            
	Databases			 Semantics and foundations
	Environments			 Static analysis
	Higher-order programming	 Theorem Proving
	Implementation         		 Types          


Papers must be written in English, must not exceed 15 pages (including
references and figures), and must contain a cover page including the
following: a 200 word abstract, keywords, and postal and electronic
mailing addresses as well as phone numbers and fax numbers of the
responsible author. Submitted papers should not have been previously
published or being submitted to any journals or refereed conferences.
Accepted papers must be presented at the conference.  

Send SIX (6) copies of your submission by NOVEMBER 15, 1993 to

	Pascal Van Hentenryck 
	Brown University, Box 1910 
	Providence, RI 02912 (USA) 
	Email: pvh@cs.brown.edu 
	Phone: +1 401 863 76 34 
	Fax: +1 401 863 76 57 

Authors will be notified of the acceptance or rejection of their
papers by FEBRUARY 21, 1994. Final versions of the accepted
papers must be received in camera-ready form by MARCH 15, 1994.
The proceedings will be published by MIT Press.

ICLP'94 will take place in Santa Margherita Ligure, a small town in
the Italian Riviera close to Genova, the largest city of Liguria.
Close to the conference site is the worldwide famous village of
Portofino, pearl of the Mediterranean Sea and marine natural park; not
far from Santa Margherita is also the pleasant resort area of "Cinque
Terre", consisting of five pictoresque villages on the rocky coast
which can be reached by train or boat only. 

PROGRAM COMMITTEE

Khayri Ali            Sweden       
Maurice Bruynooghe    Belgium 
Philippe Codognet     France 
Yves Deville          Belgium 
Herve Gallaire        France 
Chris Hogger          UK 
Joxan Jaffar          USA 
Giorgio Levi          Italy 
Jan Maluszynski       Sweden 
Kim Marriott          Australia 
Maurizio Martelli     Italy 
Lee Naish             Australia 
Frank Pfenning        USA 
David Poole           Canada 
Antonio Porto         Portugal 
Raghu Ramakrishnan    USA 
M. Rodriguez-Artalejo Spain 
Gert Smolka	      Germany 
V.S. Subrahmanian     USA 
Peter Szeredi         Hungary 
Evan Tick             USA 
Kazunori Ueda         Japan 
Pascal Van Hentenryck USA 
Peter Van Roy         France 
Andrei Voronkov       Sweden 
Mark Wallace          Germany 
Rong Yang             UK 

GENERAL CHAIR
Maurizio Martelli (Genova) 

PROGRAM CHAIR
Pascal Van Hentenryck (Brown) 

POSTER CHAIR
Lee Naish (Melbourne) 

WORKSHOP CHAIR
Catuscia Palamidessi (Genova) 

PUBLICITY CHAIR} 
Fosca Giannotti (Pisa) 

ORGANIZING COMMITTEE
Rosa Maria Bottino (IMA-CNR) 
Giorgio Delzanno (DISI)
Giuseppe Marino (DIST) 
Alessandro Messora (DISI) 

LOCAL ORGANIZATION
Piera Ponta (CGR) 


